# Transport Slice Controller Mapping Function
The role of Transport Slice Controller is to provide the following
capabilities for transport slices:

* Automation on creaton/modificatin/deletion of transport slice

* Monitoring and analytics on transport slice

* Closed-loop optimization on transport slice

To perform any of these functions, TSC needs to map the NBI to SBI
and vice versa.

## TSC NBI to SBI Mapping for transport slice automation

For automation on creaton/modificatin/deletion of transport slice,
TSC should map the TSC NBI to its SBI.  Since the TSC NBI is
technology-agnostic, it should first find out the network technlogy
and its abstract topology.  In specific, the inter-doamin link shall
be known to TSC.  Based on this, TSC will find out the network
resource to be used for transport slice realizaton.  It will be then
assign or re-use the resource attibutes (e.g.  IP addresses, VLAN,
BSID etc.) which will be used later to initiate the transport slice
realizetion via its SBI.  This capability is very impotant which
provided tremendous flexibility for multi-vendor aspect of TSC.

Finally, TSC via its SBI initiates transport slice realization using
various tecnhnlogy-specific L0/L1/L2/L3 services/tunnels/paths.  To
further allow more flexibility, an optional policy called "Transport
Slice Selection Policy" (see Section 6.6.2) might be empolyed by
higher level system to influence the way that TSC will realize a
transport slice.  For example, if an operator would like to realize a
specific transport slice using L3 VPRN sercvie and SR-TE tunnels, it
can do so, by using selection policy of Section 6.6.2 as part of TSC
NBI creation request API.  The details of this will be in draft dddd.

Figure 4 illustrates more details on how the technology-agnostic TSC
NBI maps to various technology-specific services/tunnels/paths models
(Note that these models can also be various IETF service/tunnels/path
models).  The transport slice controller receives a request for
creation of a transport slice in step (1).  This request is an
abstract intent-based request which contains the required connections
between various endpoints and required SLO.  The transport slice
controller will then find the resource (step 2) and the technology
(step 3) torealize those conneections.  Finally in step (4), TSC uses
its SBIs to tirgger creation of various services/tunnels/paths.
These coud be any IETF models or any other models.  In other words,
the TSC NBI provides an abstract layer on top of specific model,
including IETF models.  The IETF services, paths and tunnels data
models can be any existing IETF service models such as L3SM or L2SM
([RFC8049] and [RFC8466]).  It also can be any future data models.


                          | (1) Transport slice creation request via
                          |     TSC NBI
                          v
               ---------------------
               |                   | (2) Find the resource (e.g.
               |                   |     boarder routers, ip addresses,
               |     Transport     |     VLAN etc)
               |       Slice       |
               |     Controller    | (3) Find out the tecnology to be
               |                   |     used during realization
               |                   |     (e.g. use L3 VPRN with
               |                   |     SR-TE tunnels)
               |-------------------|
                       | | |
               |-------| | |-------|  (4) Via TSC SBI, trigger various
               |         |         |      APIs for creation of services,
               |         |         |      paths and tunnels
               v         v         v
           (---------------------------)
          (                             )
         (        Transport Network      )
          (                             )
           (---------------------------)


      Figure 4: TSC NBI to SBI mapping for transport slice automation

## TSC SBI to NBI Mapping for transport slice monitoring and optimization

Figure 5 shows the details on how the TSC maps the telemetry data
receives from TSC SBI to TSC NBI.  The mapping in this case involves
correlation between the telemetry data arrived on TSC SBI to
transport slice and calculation of "current transport slice SLO"
which in turn will be used to trigger closed-loop optimization action
upon SLA violation.  TSC will also inform the "Higher Level System"
about the "current transport slice SLO".

                        A
                        | (5) Via TSC NBI, inform "Higher Level System"
                        |     about the "current transport slice SLO"
                        |     and if any SLA violation happened
                        |
                        |          (4) Using "current transport slice SLO"
             ---------------------     find out if there is any
             |                   |     transport slice SLA violation.
             |                   |     If so, trigger corrective action
             |                   |
             |     Transport     | (3) Aggregate the Telemetry data
             |       Slice       |     and calculate
             |     Controller    |     "current transport slice SLO"
             |                   |
             |                   | (2) Map the Telemetry data
             |-------------------|     to Transport Slice
                     A A A
                     | | |         (1) Via TSC SBI, TSC continuously
                     | | |             receives Telemetry data
             |-------| | |-------|     for services/tunnels/paths
             |         |         |     used during transport slice
             |         |         |     realization
         (---------------------------)
        (                             )
       (        Transport Network      )
        (                             )
         (---------------------------)


      Figure 5: TSC SBI to NBI mapping for transport slice monitoring
