# TEAS NS DT MEETING APRIL 2, 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko + fixes from unidentified contributors.

## PARTICIPANTS

* Jari Arkko
* Reza Rokui
* Bo Wu
* John Drake
* Kiran Makhani
* Shunsuke Homma
* Greg Mirsky
* Dhruv Dhody
* Jeff Tantsura
* Luis M. Contreras
* Xuesong Geng
* Jie Dong
* Ran Chen

## AGENDA

* Interaction with the WG
* Definitions draft
* Framework draft
* Next steps and new work
* Any other business
* Closing

## INTERACTION WITH THE WG

Jari has sent a mail asking for feedback (see https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/teas/CCnfzDAgk_P7Z26Mr2WV5ezcN4g/)

WG interim meeting (virtual) is scheduled for April 23; stay tuned for an announcement from the WG chairs. As far as we know, the time of the meeting is not confirmed.

Kiran noted that the agenda for our part should be about general introduction, the two draft presentations, and discussion. Jari added that the focus should be on pulling feedback and information and comments from the working group. We should also ask for adoption of our documents.

There was a discussion on to what extent we have material avaiable for relation of our work to other work. To what extent do our work on northbound interfaces and extensions suffice for that? See also https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-liu-teas-transport-network-slice-yang-00 and https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-wd-teas-transport-slice-yang-00.

## DEFINITIONS DRAFT

Not many changes, presumably reflects its stable status. Two small issues are open, will be handled by Kiran.

## FRAMEWORK DRAFT

John believes we have a stable draft.

John had sent a question to the list but had not heard back from others. The question was about enhanced-vpn draft and whether that could serve as a draft that contains the existing work references. John suggests taking that draft a step further, really listing how the different tecnologies might apply. Jari noted that we might have to expand the contents a bit, e.g., currently the draft is quite focused on isolation and other aspects should also be covered. John noted that this should be doable. On the call no one seemed to object the idea at least. Jie Dong said that he will have to consider the proposal.

## NEXT STEPS AND NEW WORK

Jari asked what's next after the two drafts? Surely they need to be continued, but what else needs doing?
* perhaps something about existing mechanisms (e.g. as discussed above per John's suggestion)
* perhaps a data model
* perhaps something about mapping or controllers

Luis reminded us that we have another piece of work ongoing, to understand the requirements for the northbound interface, what the requirements are, what the needs from the telco industry is, etc.

Jeff Tantsura thinks that data models also need to be pursued. Jari asked whether the drafts would benefit from being worked on by the design team.  No clear answer on that, Reza said that they could also progress on their own, as individual drafts. Jeff believed that we could continue in the design team, as we have built competence on this topic.

Shunsuke asked if we should develop an understanding of how to stich a transport slice. There are telco requirements for this. But is this an IETF or design team's problem?

Xuesong Geng has proposed a draft on end-to-end network slicing. Many service providers need instructions when setting up 5G. See https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-geng-teas-network-slice-mapping-00. Jari said that he had oppposed end-to-end slicing discussion in the design team's base documents, in order to focus, get to the completion timely, etc. That reason does not prevent work on stiching or end-to-end slices, although there may of course still be questions on what the IETF scope in this space should be, and whether there is already specifications in 3GPP and elsewhere. Kiran commented that end-to-end transport slices and end-to-end slices are different. Inter-service provider slicing may be different end-to-end 5G network slicing, for instance.

## AOB

Next meeting will be on Monday April 6th at 3PM CET.

## CLOSING

The meeting ended at 18:45 CET.
