# TEAS NS DT CALL, MAY 4TH, 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko + others

## PARTICIPANTS

* Jari Arkko
* Luis M. Contreras
* Reza Rokui
* Joel Halpern
* Dhruv Dhody
* Eric Gray
* Greg Mirsky
* Kiran Makhijani
* Sergio Belotti
* Shunsuke Homma
* Xufeng Liu
* Bo Wu
* Jie Dong
* Rakesh Gandhi

## AGENDA

* Discussion on issues

## DISCUSSION ON ISOLATION

Jari: Don't expect this to be just a clarification. A substantial issue. Also don't expect this to be merely removal of text. But we have to have material that is correct and makes sense.

Kiran Makhijani opened the discussion. What can we do to address the issue?

Joel Halpern and John Drake were concerned about talking about things that are not really measurable, visible to the customer. There are several ways to implement things. Why do we have these?

Jari: FYI I had posted two alternative fixes to this issue on the list. In the first alternative, we strike all text relating to isolation and hard/soft separation: http://arkko.com/ietf/teas/draft-nsdt-teas-transport-slice-definition-02-isolation-changes2-from-.diff.html In the second one (http://arkko.com/ietf/teas/draft-nsdt-teas-transport-slice-definition-02-isolation-changes2-from-.diff.html) we replace the "hard soft resolution of a guarantee" text with "confidence level".

Greg Mirsky: There's no good definition of availability in statistical terms.

Reza: 

Jari had a proposal for both Section 4.1 characteristic list and Section 4.1.1 changes:

* There seemed to be some agreement on characteristic list changes to use the "confidence level" language. So that's good.

* The proposal to replace Section 4.1.1 was much more controversial. There was a fair bit of opposition to describing in detail why something failed. This is because customers can't tell why something failed, only that it failed. At the same time, there was some argument in favour of including something in order to explain a complex issue that is too often referred to by too simplistic terms  in the industry/IETF. Jari's impression is that we don't currently have consensus for workable explanation that could replace 4.1.1, but it is currently not acceptable either.

## DISCUSSION ON the TERM "SLO"

Kiran Makhijani: Should this be removed?

Eric Gray: We should define what we mean with SLO. John: Is there a reference we could include? Eric: Jeff thought that this is largely known in the industry. Eric will talk to Jeff, who seems to have references. Greg Mirsky knows an SLO definition from the service ? industry. He promised to send a link to Kiran.

Jie Dong: Should all SLOs be directly measurable/observable? Availability measurement isn't easy. Even jitter measurement is hard. John thinks we should do what the references say.

## DISCUSSION ON THE TERM "TRANSPORT"

We did not have time for this.

## END

Meeting ended 16.00 CET.

