# TEAS NS DT MEETING MARCH 5TH, 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko. Please edit or complete these notes as needed.

## PARTICIPANTS

* Dhruv Dhody
* Ran Chen
* Jari Arkko
* Reza Rokui
* Jie Dong
* Eric Gray
* Kiran Makhani
* Shunsuke Homma
* Xufeng Liu
* Luis M. Contreras
* Sergio Belotti
* Stewart Bryant
* Bo Wu

## AGENDA

* Definitions
* Framework
* Upcoming calls

## Definitions

The document is at https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/definitions/draft-rokui-teas-transport-slice-definition-00.txt and is a day old.

Discussion was lead by Kiran. She went through the recent changes and the the main discussion points from Sergio, Jari and others.

The group discussed Jari's comment regarding how much e2e slicing should be visible in the document. A compromise was reached.

The group discussed the base definition and Sergio's proposal vs. what's currently in the document. The current definition is:

   "A transport slice is a logical network topology connecting a number
   of endpoints and a set of shared or dedicated network resources,
   which are used to satisfy specific Service Level Objectives (SLO)".

Sergio's proposal is:
    
    "A transport network slice is a virtual network with a particular 
    network topology and a set of shared or dedicated network 
    resources, which are used to provide the network slice consumer 
    with the required connectivity, with expected objectives specified 
    through a specific Service Level Objective (SLO). â€œ

Kiran's problem with the virtual network is that in her view, virtual implies overlay, and for transport slices we would like to enable even things like reserving an entire physical link as part of a transport slice.

Eric suggested that while he understands Kiran's point, one could of course reference ACTN definitions. Kiran's counterpoint was that then one has to define the concept virtual network first before being able to use that term, etc.

Reza summarised that the concept in RFC .... is very similar to what we want to do for transport slices. 

Eric and Kiran to call tomorrow to align framework and definitions. Eric had some issues with the inclusion of the lower controller, etc.

Jari to suggest a resolution of his issue with the isolation section. He believes the document should treat isolation as it treats other characteristics rather than raise it as something special. It should also be formulated different. He will make a text proposal during the weekend.

Eric made the point that only thing required for working group adoption is the right direction, not readiness. Comments and changes will still be forthcoming. Jari added that he would not be too worried about missing something, but having complex or "don't belong here" parts can put off working groups from adopting work. Lets keep that in mind!

## Framework

Discussion to be lead by Eric. Latest committed version is at https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/framework/draft-ejj-teas-ns-framework-00.txt and is 8 days old. A more complete version with additional merges is in the editor's works.

Kiran asked if Eric wants to repeat definitions or refer to them. Eric responded that he wants to simply refer to them.  The idea is that the definition draft introduces concepts and the framework draft goes into more detail about it.

Section 3.3 of the framework draft needs to be the TSC term instead of the controller. Eric made the point that this document is not about the details of the controller or interfaces, but rather should explain the architecture and the relationship between different components.

Reza asked how far we can get before the deadline, as there are many pull requests to integrate. The answer was that Eric was confident we can editorially complete the work, assuming otherwise there's an agreement on Monday. Jari observed that we need to push now during the last few days, so please monitor the mailing list on Friday and Monday and if possible even during the weekend. In addition, editors need to do their hard work, and people who had issues or suggestions need to propose specific changes, others need to participate on the list to agree & discuss.

## Upcoming calls

Next week Monday 9/3 at 3PM CET
Monday the 16/3 at 5PM CET (one extre meeting for preparing to the IETF)

## Closing

Meeting ended 6.10PM CET.
