# TEAS NS DT CALL NOTES, APRIL 30TH, 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko + corrections from Jie Dong and others

## PARTICIPANTS

* Jari Arkko
* Bo Wu
* Dhruv Dhody
* Eric Gray
* Jie Dong
* Luis M. Contreras
* Greg Mirsky
* Rakesh Gandhi
* Reza Rokui
* Xufeng Liu
* Jeff Tantsura
* John Drake
* Sergio Belotti

## AGENDA

* Continuing discussion based on questions and feedback in the WG interim
* Any other business

## CONTINUING THE DISCUSSION FROM THE WG INTERIM

Bo Wu: I think TEAS WG still struggles with the same things as the design team, definition and framework. Most people probably have not read the framework draft yet.

Dhruv Dhodu: Bo captured it. Maybe discussing framework first would be useful. Need to generate more discussion.

Eric Gray: Need to discuss definitions, we need to resolve current things first before moving to next things. Eric himself has also taken a harder look at the definitions draft.

Jari: We got good feedback! Lets take a serious look at that and revise as needed

Jeff: Very positive! We've been looking at our own things too long. Lets address comments. Really good if Joel joins next call.

Jie Dong: Lets work together to make it clear. To improve. Lets not just make negative comments, lets make contributions!

John Drake: Thinks that Joel has made good points. I don't think we have good definitions of hard and soft isolation. John also agrees on Joel's point on endpoints. (Jari does not yet understand that comment, need to discuss more on the list.)

Kiran Makhijani: We need to be clearer and more comprehensive. Also concerned about Adrian's comment on the term "transport".

Reza Rokui: I have a response on the transport term. I think we have a good response. Reza has sent mail on the list, see that email. (Dhruv points out that the mail only went to defs draft authors. Reza will forward to everyone. Eric makes the point that we should keep all discussion visible to everyone in the design team.)

Luis M. Contreras: Probably we have concepts that aren't so clear to outsiders. We can improve. Luis thinks that there's a transition in the industry in general, in the 3GPP operator community for instance. Worried that isolation isn't recognised as well as it is in the industry. 

This lead to some discussion: Kiran was worried that people don't understand the new requirements. Jari didn't think that people disagreed with the requirement, it was more about being precise in our terms and requirements. Industry use of vague terms is no excuse for us to use them; we have a chance to make a contribution and improve the terminology! Jeff commented that Joel's comment should be understood mostly in the sense of observable requirement. Kiran: we didn't say clearly that isolation is not measurable. Luis: not all things are measurable. I like to look at isolation as availability, not exactly measurable but still important. Jeff: If you look at fiber delivery, customers always ask for fiber being redundant and going different ways.

Rakesh Gandhi: Not much to add. For an early draft, these feedbacks are to be expected. 

Sergio Belotti: In my view, what was underlying was that most people jumped directly to the YANG model presentation and maybe without having read about the context, the framework, etc. Referred to the mail from Italo.

Xufeng Liu: We got lots of comments that are positive and with good points. Constructive discussion. People are looking at things from two directions. Should we cover both perspectives in the definition? Also, people with thoughts on names of terms, e.g., SLO/SLA, transport... we need to have good definitions. Xufeng thinks that people do not ignore the framework document but it is more in line of what the WG expects.

Any further thoughts?

Reza: Is there any term in IETF today that addresses transport as a generic term? Xufeng says that this term has been used a lot but not so much in RFCs, rather in the industry, ITU, etc.

Eric wanted to respond to Luis' comment about measurability. Anyone who pays for a feature, wants to measure it. Availability is measurable. Jari thinks that availability and isolation are fundamentally different in the sense of measurability. You can observe if you're down, so you can measure availability. Hopefully the down times are rare, so getting enough data may not be a problem. But for isolation, if you're talking about *how* you implement a guarantee, it is difficult to make any measurement, becaue you can't talk about how something was done in a black box. You'd be better off measuring the actual desired characteristic, e.g., whether a bandwidth guarantee was reached, and if not, how often it wasn't. On the other hand, it is true that just like fiber layouts, customers will want to enforce some kind of topology/separation to reduce the likelihood of fiber cuts, even if those events are rare. Is this similar to or different from isolation? However, in both cases we focus on one component (fiber or TDM slice) but in reality any faults might occur either in that component (which is then manageable) or in some other component (like common power feeding both, in which case the issue may no longer be manageable).

Jie mentioned that whether some attribute is observable or measurable may also be related to the real requirement of the service, as an example, the network degradation may be easier to be observed for a smart grid service vs. a traditional broadband service. Also it depends on the tools we used for the measurement. The measurement of availability may require specific tools or environment setup, while latency is easier to be measured. Similarly, for isolation, it may be verified with the suitable tools or environment. 

Reza: Are the isolation issues the only issues? Eric thinks that they are only a poster child of the type of issues we're having. Plus it is hard to measure isolation when the definition is "not affected by other traffic" and as a customer, you should not be able to see other traffic :-)

Eric: There's a lot of things in the definitions draft that aren't definitions -- like the isolation section. It may not be worthwhile to keep these parts in the document.

## ANY OTHER BUSINESS

We did not have time for other business.

## END

The call was finished at 17.59 CET. The next call with be on Monday, May 4th, at 3PM CET. Joel Halpern will be joining us for that.

