
Notes from the TEAS NS DT call, October 21, 2019

PRESENT

- Jari Arkko
- Shunshuke Homma
- Eric Gray
- John Drake
- Luis M. Contreras
- Xufeng Liu
- Reza Rokui
- Kiran Makhijani
- Xuesong Geng
- Bo

AGENDA:
        
* Finding a note taker: https://etherpad.ietf.org/p/teas-ns-dt-call4
* Agenda bash
* Principles (Jari)
* Terms (All)
* North-bound interface (Reza/Xufeng/Jeff)
* Templates/modelling (Luis)
* Next steps, drafts we can use, etc
* AoB

DISCUSSION:
    
Finding a note taker
- Jari will take notes

Agenda bash
- no additions

Principles 
- Jari went through the email discussion
- Last week's call agreed on the principle. NBI should be vendor/implementatkon agnostic, i.e. NBI should have a "customer view".
- Eric raised that we should have a reason to believe that future issues can be handled this way; but there is no guarantee. Need to be extensible.
- Question: how do we model connectivity and server instances together (e.g. core appliations connected by a transport slice)? Answer: Reza's picture from the Oct 17th call shows how to do this.
- Decision: we will work based on the model where requirement/implementation are disctinct

Terms 
- Reza talked about what had been discussed last week: "Transport slice" was the term that felt more natural than end-to-end, network, 5G etc terms. "Transport" is a group of connections.
- Xufeng: How do we connect to other aspects, not just network but also functions/services? Agreement in the group that something like a reference is needed.
- Kiran: Just providing transport slices may not be enough
- Eric: We need to take into account mobility in the RAN network
- Reza: are you talking about implementation functions, or actual functions?
- Jari: the topic is useful, but complex. we have:
   1) Implementation functions (eg. load balancer to create a sufficiently high-capacity transport connection). These should not be visible in the NBI
   2)Rreal functions . (e.g., a firewall). These are not in our scope, but of course we want to co-exist with them. There are three approaches, either we a) allow references, b) allow someone else to refer to us, or  c) use powerful enough modelling frameworks that allow other things to be done.
- Comment: Note that there already are TEAS models that enable the flexibility to have references to functions etc
- Jari: good engineering then, good to have general models that allow representing other things (even if we are not the ones defining those). Reza agrees with Jari
- Question: Transport slice is a virtual wire (Jari) or graph (Kiran)? Jari responds that we probably need a graph.
- Conclusions?
   - Not 100% clear/in sync with terms yet -- needs work
   - Also no agreement on whether to use 3GPP based terms or not
   - Transport connections will be graphs, not wires
   - Our modelling approach needs to include ability to refer/include network functions (even if we do not initially use them) and the TEAS work already enables this

North-bound interface (Reza/Xufeng/Jeff)
- slides sent out last week by Xufeng (see https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/teas-ns-dt/7xXMFxy-uST7z-sb_mfdz3zbKho)
- try to use other work already done, by augmenting existing models
- There's RFC 8345 framework in ACTN, is that RFC good framework for us?

Templates/modelling (Luis)
* Skipped due to lack of time

Next steps, drafts we can use, etc

* Discussion: Kiran suggested going through definitions from existing drafts in one place.
* Action items:
   * Collect a text file with definitions from the different drafts (Kiran, Reza, Shunshuke TBC)
   * Pick or suggest definitions that are relevant for our transport scope (Kiran, Reza, Shunshuke TBC)
   * Discuss slides from Xufeng on the list (All)
   * Write a scope draft (Jari)
* Today's conclusions:
   * We will work based on the model where requirement/implementation are disctinct
   * Transport connections will be graphs, not wires
   * Our modelling approach needs to include ability to refer/include network functions (even if we do not initially use them) and the TEAS work already enables this
   * No agreement on terms yet, need to agree on them!

AoB
