# TEAS NS DT CALL JUNE 15, 2020

Participants:
* Jari Arkko
* Rakesh Gandhi
* Bo Wu
* Dhruv Dhody
* Jie Dong
* Reza Rokui
* Shunsuke Homma
* Tomonobu Niwa
* Aihua Guo
* Eric Gray
* Srihari Sangli

Notes by Jari Arkko, as well as some anomymous contributions to the Etherpad.

Agenda:
* resolving issues from the definitions draft
* framework draft, reviews, issues?
* other work, data model etc?

## Resolving issues from definitions draft

Reza and Shunsuke summarized the changes
* Went through all comments. Internally they modified the comments.

Jari asked if the previous comments had been addressed, he didn't see some changes he had asked for last week, for instance. Some confusion with regards to what was actually brought to the GitHub from the author team. We concluded that the author team will come back to the mailing list and indicate what issues have been addressed (and which might still need to be discussed). But we will not use time on the call 

Since the last meeting's week there's been a few outstanding issues:
* Jari's review comments from last week
* Discussion around isolation text by Jie, Eric, Luis, Jari, and others.

Jari had posted a suggestion for the isolation text. The main problem he saw was the current text implied isolation and resource reservation is the only way to prevent cross-slice traffic impacts, or that it can provide a full guarantee. The new text attempts to discuss the results from isolation/resource dedication without going into a lot of detail.

Jari discussed his text proposal.

Eric thought that the nature of some of these issues is that it is very hard to protect 100% against any kind of problem. Jari agreed. Reza thought that 1-2 paragraphs would be something that the DT can agree with. Any longer, and we risk repeating discussions from the earlier design team calls.  Shushuke thought that Jari's text seemed ok. Jie Dong said that it is good to classify isolation to requirement and realization, and in dimensions of both traffic separation and the probability (or confidence level) of SLO guarantee. Small comment about sudden changes to traffic volumes and misbehaving users might have some overlap? Maybe is about customer himself or others. Jari agreed. Jie also asked about the confidence level, is this also about availability. Jari agreed, maybe we need to stick to the style in rest of the document, i.e., not talk about confidence level. Talk about availability. Eric agreed. Reza said that the text uses service term, maybe we can use transport slices rather than service? Jari agreed.

Jari to revise his text.

Srihari asked about availability, how do you measure it? Eric responded that we've had extensive discussion about it, the guarantees are supposed to apply all of the time. When they are not, you're failing availability. Srihari: So it is basically the uptime of being able to respect the agreed SLOs. Eric and Jari agreed.

Bo Wu still had a question about the endpoint definition. Could authors give some description of an endpoint? Right now the latest document specifies endpoint and realization of endpoint. Difficult to understand what these actually are. Is the distinction about underlay or overlay? Reza agreed that there's an issue. He has modified the text a bit, can Bo take a look? If not clear by then, can you send text?

Eric commented that John Drake would typically make a comment here that it would be useful to have some explanation of analogy of endpoints in terms of PE and CE concepts. Take it with a grain of salt, of course, but that's one way current text could be clarified. Reza said that we had that in the very first draft of the document. Bo thought that Eric's point of view was quite useful.

Jie had another quick comment about the endpoint update. He sees that there's one statement that transport slices and transport slice realization endpoints are indentical. Jie is not sure what does this mean? Reza agrees this is a good point, and the authors will clarify. Maybe a small example can help.

Jari and Eric commented that we shouldn't do discussions in the author team and issue new version. We should rather open new threads on the design team mailing list, and suggest/discuss changes out in the open, so that everyone has a chance to comment. And the people who initially suggested a change can see what is going on with their change. Reza agreed.

## Framework draft, reviews, issues

Only two issues discussed recently was:
* Do we have the right (and right version) of the figure for ACTN?
* (The note taker did not cover the second issue).

Bo asked if there are some other candidates from IETF that can be used the TEAS-NBI model. Eric said that we don't define the NBI in this document.

## Other work

Bo has been progressing the work to determine if existing IETF models can be used for the NBI work. She did not succeed in uploading the most recent draft to GitHub, however. Jari promised to look into it. Bo will send mail about the exact issue and location.

## Closing

Meeting was closed 16.00 CET due to people leaving for other meetings.
