# TEAS NS DT CALL APRIL 16, 2020
 
Note taker: Jari Arkko + Eric Gray
 
## PARTICIPANTS
 
* Jari Arkko
* Eric Gray
* Bo Wu
* Greg Mirsky
* John Drake
* Xufeng Liu
* Luis M. Contreras
* Reza Rokui
* Jie Dong
* Rakesh Gandhi
* Dhruv Dhody
* Kiran Makhijani
* Jeff Tantsura
* Sami Boutros
* Sergio Belotti
 
## AGENDA
 
* Upcoming TEAS WG interim call
* Definitions
* Framework
* Other
 
## Upcoming TEAS WG interim call
 
Meeting will be on the 23rd. An agenda for the meeting had gone out yesterday, see https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/agenda-interim-2020-teas-01-teas-01/. The design team has 50 minutes in the agenda.
 
Plan for this 50 minutes is for Jari to speak for context at the beginning and ask for adoption. Then two document teams will speak about the substance of their documents. Then we will have 25 minutes or so for discussion and questions.
 
APs:
    
    * Jari to talk to the chairs to ensure that we're in sync on who talks and who chairs the dt-part of the meeting
    * Jari to develop context slides (1-2)
    * Definitions and framework teams to develop respective slides on their topics (3-4/each)
 
## Definitions
 
Draft has been updated on GitHub and Datatracker.
 
But they have started a discussion on different SLOs on the same slice. Some differing opinions still. Discussion to continue.
 
## Framework
 
Eric knows of no comments.  Reluctant to make changes because it would be better to get the working group to look at the document.
 
Expecting Luis to contribute an appendix based on the analysis of GSMA parameters. Luis indicates that he's already sent some initial text.
 
Eric will look for this, but Reza pointed out that there is a draft that could be referred to as well.
 
Some discussion followed whether this should be in the draft or separately, e.g., https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-contreras-teas-slice-nbi-01.txt. Some differing opinions here, John believed that this would make the draft a more complete story.  As Eric and John are co-editors, this should be resolved off-line.
 
## Other
 
Reza indicated that on modelling there are updates, and Bo sent an email. See the draft https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-wd-teas-transport-slice-yang for more information. On the call, Bo went through some of the issues around SLO policies representation in the YANG structure.
 
Xufeng has concerns  with the proposed model since he said that what proposed can be obtained using and augmenting directly RFC 8345 model , proposing already abstract node concept as made by actual TS model.
 
Kiran has the same opinion do not introduce new definitoins and terms, but using what is already there a simple logical topology and then augment what is needed starting from there.
 
There was externsive discussion about how to interpret what RFC 8345 actually says.  Both John and Dhruv talked about the flexibility of the models in RFC 8345.  John also pointed out that there is no hard relationship between the service and the underlying topology.  Dhruv pointed out that a lot of similar thinking went into the TEAS work in ACTN.
 
 Bo Wu needs to get a folder setup in cooperation with Jari in our github area  where she can post the latest version.  This way, Bo can make sure that the latest version is available for DT review and comment - without necessarily needing to post new versions to the IETF ID repository.
 
Jeff pointed out that a lot of the discussion in today's meeting was position (or point) making and not really communicasting.  This is an important topic and we need to make sure that the issues are properly understood from all sides.
 
We should try to continue this discussion next week; hopefully some discussion may take place between now and then via E-Mail.
 
 
## Closing
 
The meeting was closed 18:00 CET.

