# NS DT MEETING FEB 24, 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko

## AGENDA

* Approaching I-D deadline
* Framework
* Definitions
* Any other business

## PARTICIPANTS

* Jari Arkko
* Bo Wu
* Dhruv Dhody
* Shunshuke Homma
* Kiran Makhijani
* Eric Gray
* Reza Rokui

(The list is not complete, the note taker was going through at an airport at the time.)

## I-D DEADLINE

The ID deadline is coming up. We can produce a draft for the deadline, but it needs hard work on the mailing list in the coming 13 days!

## FRAMEWORK

Eric Grey and John Drake had reviewed the proposals in pull-requests; Jari had done so as well on the mailing list.

Reza asked about the process, as there are only pieces here and there. Eric responded that we have a current text version that anyone can look at any time: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/framework/draft-ejj-teas-ns-framework-00.txt What we are doing now is reviewing proposals for additional content. This review and integration into the main framework document happens one by one. The current proposals for new text are:

* Pull-request #7: Xufeng’s proposed textual additions. The text is here: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pull/6/files
* Pull-request #8: Reza’s proposed text addition to the controller section. The text is here: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pull/8/files
* Pull-request #9: Reza’s proposed text for Transport Slice Controller (TSC) Northbound Interface (NBI). The text is here: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pull/9/files
* Pull-request #10: Reza’s proposed text for additions to the Framework section. The text is here: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pull/10/files
* Pull-request #11: Reza’s proposed text for addition to the Mapping section. The text is here: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pull/11/files

And discussion of them happens on the mailing list.

During the call, the following major points were discussed:

* The role of SBI; it was agreed that the SBI definition is in the definitions draft and we should debate whether that definition is corrrect and at the right level. Jari argued, for instance, that it is necessary to keep the SBI discussion at a very high level and clearly indicate that there are multiple options here (proprietary, standardized, etc).

* Kiran and Bo commented that part of the reason for difficult discussions around the controller is that its role have not been clearly defined and categorized.

* Discussion of whether to include details of NBI and to what level. We agreed that we can use conceptual data but not how it is represented in YANG etc. We should also watch for unnecessarily repeating material if it is already in the definitions draft.

## DEFINITIONS

Kiran had updated two aspects:
    
    - provided a better definition of characteristics
    - provided a section on isolation
    
She prefers design team members discuss the proposals on the mailing list. Please review and comment! The proposal is here: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/definitions/draft-rokui-teas-transport-slice-definition-00.txt and the changes here: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/commit/761a55129aaadcc0934d7151359d867e89784317

## ANY OTHER BUSINESS

None.

## CLOSING

Note taker left the meeting at 4:00 PM CET.
