# TEAS NS DT CALL MARCH 9TH, 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko. Please edit the etherpad during the meeting (or the notes later in GitHub) to complement notes of what's being discussed!

## PARTICIPANTS

* Eric Gray
* Dhruv Dhody
* Reza Rokui
* Jie Dong
* Rakesh Gandhi
* Sergio Belotti
* Xufeng Liu
* Jari Arkko
* Luis M. Contreras
* Shunshuke Homma
* Kiran Makhijani
* Bo Wu

## AGENDA

* Definitions document
* Framework document
* Authorships
* Next call

## Framework document

Pulls 7, 8, 9, 10, and 13 have been completed. Pulls 11 and 12 are still under discussion.

Eric went through the issues:
    
* Potential rearranging of sections 3 and 4
    
* The requirements section is perhaps incorrectly named; the content is more intentions, objectives or context for the overall system.
    
* Jari asked if the ACTN section should be generalized to other frameworks. Eric responded that it is because we use the ACTN terminology, but we still need to explain other IETF technology relation somewhere. Some of that is in fact already in Section 4.5.
    
* Reza asked about clarification on the picture in Section 3. The question was whether there's sufficient explanatory text, and whether (as Kiran argues) the section is about relation to another framework more than specific realization mapping.
    
Jari asked if the draft is ready to be adopted as a joint design team draft (obviously, still not wg draft, and only a -00 anyway). The team agreed.

Eric will submit the modified draft today as draft-nsdt-teas-...

## Definitions document

Kiran had restructured the document according to Jari's comments.

Contention currently is on:

* "logical"
* "shared or dedicated resources" language (Jari stated that this is no longer critical for him).
* Isolation being too much framed around its implementation rather than requirement. Jari proposed some new text.

Jari asked if the draft is ready to be adopted as a joint design team draft (obviously, still not wg draft, and only a -00 anyway). The team discussed aspects of this, and Jari will make a revised proposal, that Kiran can adopt.

Kiran will submit the modified draft today as draft-nsdt-teas-...

## Authorships

Jari wants to be contributor rather than an author.

For other significant contributors, they could be added either as authors or listed in the contributors section. Per Reza's suggestions, we decided to add them as authors. However, Jari noted that the editors are still in charge of the documents, and will make calls regarding them. He also predicted that in the next version there will be too many authors, when additional people make contributions, and the author list becomes just the editors, with a longer contributors section.

## Next call

We will have a call on Monday 16th March, at 5PM CET. Note the changed time! Time is changed for possible IETF travel and Jari's personal conflict.

It is unclear what is going to happen with the IETF meeting (many participants and design team members will at least not be there), but the TEAS WG will have some kind of meeting, and we need to ask them for document adoption and present our work.


