# TEAS NS DT MEETING FEB 6, 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko


## PARTICIPANTS

* Sergio Belotti
* Jari Arkko
* Bo Wu
* Eric Gray
* Jie Dong
* Kiran Makhijani
* Luis M. Contreras
* Reza Rokui
* John Drake
* Shunsuke Homma
* Xufeng Liu
* Jeff Tantsura


## AGENDA

* general administrative (authorship, github, next call leader, etc)
* definitions
* framework
* any other business
* closing


## ADMINISTRATIVE

Authorship to be decided later (ALL people who contributed will be correctly credited, up to and includoing authorship where appropriate).

Jari has github rights now, can provide edit rights for others. Ask!

Xufeng, Rakesh, and Eric will start the next call and coordinate note taking, as Jari will be on short vacation. The call is on Monday February 10, 3PM CET. The Webexlink is https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=m64e8160ee739dc405a4bbf361d2a4ac6. Notes from the next call will be at https://etherpad.ietf.org/p/ns-dt-notes-feb10
  
  
## DEFINITIONS

Kiran went through the current status of the document.

There was a process discussion of how to handle comments with this document. There's one issue and one PR already in GitHub. *AP*: The definition draft authors should take a look at these:
    
* https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/issues/3
* https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pull/4

But in general, the definitions editing team prefers to receive comments by email. So even if you file an issue in GitHub, please send also email to the authors (and Cc the teas-ns-dt list).

Kiran and the editing team promised to update the GitHub version from now on more frequently.

Discussion continued with the implemented changes. Sergio underlined the fact that he made a pull request for an update of text related to trasnport slice definiton, the pull request is aligned with the discussion made during last call, but nothing changed in the present version of the document.

There was discussion of Figure 3, and whether the figure is showing concepts that are needed for introducing terminology, or an architecture diagram. Xufeng argued originally for the latter, but we decided that the figure needs to just show the concepts.

There was a discussion of the SLO characteristics, and where suitable definitions of specific characteristics can be found. This had been requested by Jari, but had not yet been changed in the document. We also agreed to align the way that the terms are used, e.g., not "high reliability" but "reliability". But the general issue is that we should not have a vague definition but actual pointers. *AP*: Jeff and Luis promised to send some of the RFCs that have relevant definitions.

Eric volunteered to help Kiran reword the SLO/SLA text.

There was a discussion of isolation terminology, Jari argued that there are a number of different concepts from disjoint resources to not being affected by other traffic, etc. Kiran pointed out that it is important to keep the discussion at the requirement rather than implementation level. John talked about traffic isolation, restoration, and disjointness (?), addressing. *AP*: John to send a suggestion to the mailing list on what the breakdown should be.


## FRAMEWORK

Eric asked whether we still expect the framework to be relatively light document. Others agreed. Kiran asked how much detail we should include in the framework document, e.g., on northbound interface.

Dhruv Dhody had made a pull request (https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pull/5) for the framework document to include more detail on northbound and southbound APIs. *AP*: Eric to review and integrate as needed.

Reza has commited to provide the controller section. *AP*: Reza to add controller section.


## ANY OTHER BUSINESS

No other business


## CLOSING

The meeting was closed 17.xx. The next meeting will be on Monday, February 10th at 3PM CET.
