# TEAS NS DT CALL NOTES JUNE 25TH, 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko + others

Participants:
* Reza Rokui
* Jari Arkko
* Bo Wu
* Dhruv Dhody
* Eric Gray
* Jie Dong
* Luis M. Contreras
* Shunsuke Homma
* Aihua Guo
* John Drake
* Srihari Sangli
* Rakesh Gandhi
* ...

## Definitions draft

Reza Rokui introduced the situation. The updated draft is available in GitHub at https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/definitions/draft-nsdt-teas-transport-slice-definition-03.txt and https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/definitions/draft-nsdt-teas-transport-slice-definition.xml 

The modified parts were:

* cleanup
* introduced the concept of SLIs
* clarify rationale section
* isolation
* subsection on minimal and other SLO
* transport slice endpoints

### Isolation text issue

A new modified text is available in GitHub after discussion. 

Jari had reviewed this text and provided a small suggestion (see https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/teas-ns-dt/I9HlbI6PvN4XlcRICjG0CqzVFiQ/) but otherwise he liked the proposal.

Eric believes the text makes a lot of sense, but asked if we are to move the text to the framework document. Eric suggests a minor change, to say ", for example" after the reference to VPN technologies.

The group did not seem to have a major opinion around the placement of the text. Luis and Jie had a preference for isolation text as part of the definitions, however.

Xufeng had a question on whether the latest suggestions from Jari and others is included in the GitHub. The answer was that those minor edits were not yet included. Xufeng felt, however, that interference was not as clear part as the other two components. Interference is orthogonal to traffic isolation. He also suggested naming the components as resource isolation and traffic isolation. Jari was fine with either the two or three component solution. He said that interference avoidance was not part of his original suggestion, but he'd be happy to include it. (But not opposed to removing, if the group so desires). Interference is an interesting case though, because one might for instance think resource isolation leads to avoiding interference. But of course interference could also happen in other ways, so that's why Jari wouldn't mind still having the interference as a third component.
 Eric said that he does not want to see interference being removed. Traffic separation could be achieved by dedicated resources, and we're not asking that to be taken out. He re-iterated that he likes the current wording. If we want to modify the wording, we need to take it off-line. Jie Dong said that in his understanding interference avoidance may be different from traffic separation, traffic separation is about the reachability, interference avoidance is about performance 

Way forward:

* Current text is the baseline and largely acceptable by the design team members
* Seems like keeping the text in the definitions draft has most support in the team
* Any suggestions for changes need to come with specific text proposal

### Endpoint text issue

This section is brand new, including contributions from the list.

Eric though that the new text corresponds to what we converged on. There was a minor mixup with an acronym, which Reza promised to fix.

A lot of discussion on the issues by Dhruv, Bo, Eric, Xufeng, Reza and others, around the picture, placement of the text here or in an appendix, etc.  No agreeement on some of the issues. For instance, Eric believed moving the text that explains a picture to an appendix that is not in an appendix is just unnecessary. Dhruv believed that the modelling aspects 

Eric believes that there has been no substantial change suggested yet in the discussion.

We have decided to take this offline to talk about.

### Other issues

## Other drafts

## Closing

