
TEAS NS-DT MEETING DEC 9, 2019

Note taker: Jari Arkko

PARTICIPANTS:
    - Jari Arkko
    - Jie Dong
    - Dhruv Dhody
    - Shunsuke Homma
    - Tomonobu Niwa
    - Xufeng Liu
    - Eric Gray
    - Sergio Belotti

AGENDA
- administrativia
- definitions
- framework
- data model
- any other business

DISCUSSION

Definitions

- Status of draft? Unclear

- Xufeng: I feel that from the IETF the definitions do not have sufficient distinction between slicing and other kinds of networks. Say, TE vs. slicing?
- Jari: Is that a goal? Could also have a goal to focus on explaining how to use existing  technology.
- continued discussion... SLA/SLO is so general, bandwidth etc are also part of TE. ... 
- ... do we need to use different terms? Jari thinks we may not need to 
- Eric thinks that the concept of slicing should be divorced from the specific technologies  that  handle the diviosns
- Xufeng thinks that there's a clear difference between VPN and slices. VPN is about addresses, slices are separate. 
- Eric disagrees with the statement about  VPNs and addresses
- Jari suggests  that maybe the issue that Eric brought up is a  way to make our definitions work, that slices should be about  the general not the  technology specifc
- Jari also suggests that the characteristics that we are looking  at are more a union of the capabilities of the underlying technologies, than deciding that slicing is only about some specific characteristic (such as controlling latency)
- Eric: to assume that resource separation is something that should be provided sepaerately from bandwiidth guarantees is wrong. We should be able to provide a number of different guarantees. 
- Xufeng asks whether one can provide  bandwidth guarantees without some amount of resource separation.
- Jari brings up the difference between requirement and implementation.
- Shunsuke: in his understanding VPN, isolation/separation, and TE are implementation factors to provide sufficient capabilities. A purpose on network slicing is to provide appropriate communication/network depending on service requirement. 

Proposed conclusion:
  - the slicing concept needs to be generic,  not tied to a particular technology such  as TE
  - sometimes the slice may be implemented as TE, sometimes as VPN, sometimes as something else (such  as physical separation)
  - the slicing concept may be used to express requirements for various characteristics (including those in TE or VPN, but not limited to them)
  - our data models need to keep requirement and implementation separate
(Shunsuke and Eric at least agree, Shunsuke will reflect this in the draft.)

- Jie: we've said in the definitnon that a network slice is an abstract topology. The definition of abstract topology is given in RFC 8453 (ACTN). It seems the abstract topology may not capture all the key features of a network slice.
- Eric: Abstract topology is a superset of physical and overlay topologies. Abstract topology allows one to implement a topology either as overlay or as an actual network.
- Jie: in my view, abstract topologies are about the approach of showing a network to a customer or end-user, while in the definition it needs to describe the characteristics of the network slice itself. Eric doesn't disagree, but an abstraction is needed to hide details of the real topology from the topology when that's needed (e.g., in overlays). But the abstract topology can  still be the same as actual topology.
- We all agree that the slice is more than abstract topology. Can have requirements for instance, about bandwithc etc.
- Jari also agrees, and says that we need abstract topologies as a means to describe what the user wants ("a connection between A and B")

Jie: Other terminologies which should be defined to help the understanding of the definition.
Shunsuke: Need to document what characteristics should be included in network slicing. 

Framework

Shunsuke: ACTN should be the reference architecture, and need to analyze the gaps depending on clarified characteristics. 3GPP also has slicing framework. However it defines the user plane for mobility management, and transport is out of scope. Should define the slice of the transport part to provide end-to-end slicing. Reza's draft would be help for considering framework for transport slice.
Jie: Agree ACTN and existing works should be reused, and find gaps based on that. 





