# TEAS NS DT Call, Dec 19, 2019

## PARTICIPANTS

   * Jari Arkko
   * Jeff Tantsura
   * Dhruv Dhoddy
   * Jie Dong
   * Luis M. Contreras
   * Ren Chen
   * Reza Rokui
   * Shunsuke Homma
   * Xufeng Liu
   * Kiran
   * Bo
    
## AGENDA

    - Framework
    - Definitions'
    - AoB

## NOTES

### FRAMEWORK

Reza has a draft, draft-rokui-5g-transport-slices -- started before the design team. He sent that to the design team now in late November. But it is an older draft.

Jari thinks the draft is a good starting point, but needs to be phrased in IETF cnotext, not 5G network. Also, it needs to focus on the minimal model that the requirements presented from applications get mapped to existing technologies. And the possibility of extended object tmodels.

Maybe consider use cases as separate draft.

Reza asks what should be included in the framework draft. The group belives that it should include:

Xufeng: A framework needs to say that there are a set of components and what their role is. Not specify in detail what those components do. Reza adds that it needs to specify what information is needed. Jari agreed. His breakdown of what's needed in the framework is the following:

   * There are applications...
   * ... that present requirements for connectivity ...
   * ... (and these requirements are expressed as data objects or models) ...
   * ... the requirements get mapped by a piece of software to concrete technologies and the connectivity is set up ...
   * ... such as MPLS or VPNs or even physical cables ...

Jie Dong brought up ACTN. He said that we should also reuse ACTN work and models. Need to analyze the applicability of ACTN and existing models. Also we need to clarify the scope of the framework, whether it is the northbound interface and data model, or it also covers the implemenation technologies in the underlay.

This lead to some discussion:

   * Kiran believes we should have a simple, generic model, ACTN can come up in implementation phase
   * Jeff says that data models give you a could example of what the actual pieces are. Don't stay at too high abstraction level.
   * Reza and Kiran do not want a general solution but want clear definitions and leave implementation details for later.
   * Kiran: we need to specify why we need data models, what kind, and where they are. Not specify the exact model.
   * Some convergence that we are all talking about the same thing. We need an abstract framework but it needs to be clear, while avoiding nailing down what the format of the object model is.

Reza believes that framework needs to refer to other documents (e.g. definitions)

Xufeng: How many documents will we have? The group discussed whether to have requirements separate or not, and where to have them. The conclusion was:

- one document for the framework + requirements
- another document for the definitions

### DEFINITIONS

Reza, Shunsuke, and Kiran summarised work on the definition from Luis, Eric, Kiran, etc. The document is in GitHub. 

Jari sent some feedback: He thinks the definition draft has made great progress, thank you! The definition is now cleaner and crisper and free of extra unnecessary parts. The draft as a whole has improved, although I would say there’s still some parts that would probably be best trimmed out. For instance, there’s a section on slice isolation, but as noted before that concept does not necessarily need to rise above other characteristics, and indeed would be better explained through traditional requirement terms, such as guarantees and dependencies or non-dependencies with other slices. Also, Section 5.1 on characteristics needs expansion and maybe getting to a specific set of characteristics that we want (e.g., superset of characteristics of our initial underlying technologies). Section 5.2 and 5.3 need to relate somehow to Section 5.1, I think. Section 5.5 needs to either be defined or taken out. Finally, the definition does not talk about the specifics of endpoints, I think you include p2mp etc?

Jie Dong: It is good to add the terminology and characteristics into the definition draft, they can help to clarify the definition. While regarding the scenarios and implemenation/realization sections, may be it is better to take them out of the definition draft and put in some other draft.

Bo: Not clear about the SF manager, there is a need to relate with slicing definition. For TN slice network, Service function is just one specific endpoint.

### AoB

No other business.

