# TEAS NS DESIGN TEAM MEETING NOTES, JANUARY 23RD, 2020

## PARTICIPANTS

- Jari Arkko
- Dhruv Dhody
- Jie Dong
- Eric Gray
- Xufeng Liu
- Rakesh Gandhi
- Reza Rokui
- John Drake
- Stewart Bryant
- Sergio Belotti
- Xuesong Geng

## AGENDA

- Administrative
- Definitions draft
- Framework
- Any other business
- Closing

## ADMINISTRATIVE

Since last the meeting there has been a definitions draft uploaded to GitHub. Some changes to the framework draft have been done by Eric Gray and Jari Arkko.

Next meeting will be on Monday the 27th.

We have a bit over a month until I-D deadlines for IETF-107. Our task is to produce the definition and framework drafts to the WG by then.

## DEFINITIONS DRAFT

The definitions draft is on the design team GitHub at https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/definitions/draft-rokui-teas-transport-slice-definition-00.txt or https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/tree/master/definitions

The latest version is on GitHub.
https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/tree/master/definitions; use the .txt file, NOT the .md or diff files.

What is now much needed is critical, in-depth reviews. Reza asks for reviewers to change text and send the authors a diff.

## FRAMEWORK

A simple framework draft is on the design team GitHub at https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/framework/draft-framework.md

AP: Jari will move this framework definition to its own directory in GitHub, and add necessary Makefiles to allow for the framework draft in markdown format be compiled to a text format Internet draft. (DONE)

Eric Gray explained the changes that he had made.

Eric and John will be editors of the framework document. Everybody is expected to contribute sections, pieces of text, etc, and feel welcome to send them to the list as suggestions to the editors. If you want to sign up to write up a specific section, let the editors know as well; that can also easily be arranged.

AP: Jari will adopt the text sent as contribution a week ago but was missed by both Jari and Eric.

AP: Jari will give John and Eric all necessary access rights.

The enhanced-vpn draft will be updated soon. Authors of enhanced VPN draft would like to make both documents aligned.   There was discussion of how author lists and editorship will be aligned. Jari responded that first off, we need to be very clear about source of things, if text or effort from elsewhere is used, that needs to result in acknowledgements or author list entries. Secondly, the design team should have its own editor(s) as a synchronization point and we should not expand the list of editors too far. But, as noted, everyone in the team is very welcome to contribute in significant ways, including writing multiple sections.

## ANY OTHER BUSINESS

There was no other topics.

## CLOSE

The meeting ended 17:51 CET.
