# TEAS NS DT CALL APRIL 16, 2020

This is an open meeting of the TEAS Network Slicing Design team. Meetings are announced on the open mailing list (teas-ns-dt@ietf.org) and anyone can join.

Note taker: Jari Arkko + others for corrections.
 
## PARTICIPANTS
 
* Jari Arkko
* Jie Dong
* Bo Wu
* Dhruv Dhody
* Eric Gray
* Kiran Makhijani
* Reza Rokui
* Sergio Belotti
* Xufeng Liu
* Luis M. Contreras
 
## AGENDA
 
* Upcoming TEAS WG interim call
* Definitions
* Framework
* Other
 
## Upcoming TEAS WG interim call

We have 50 minutes on  the agenda, see https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/agenda-interim-2020-teas-01-teas-01
Jari's plan for the agenda is as follows:

>13:25  50min
>                Title:    Network Slicing Design Team
>                Draft: draft-nsdt-teas-transport-slice-definition, draft-nsdt-teas-ns-framework
>                Presenters:    Jari Arkko, Kiran Makhijani, Eric Gray
>
>  Detailed agenda
>
>                Context and introduction (5min) -  Jari Arkko
>                Definitions (10min) - Kiran Makhijani + team
>                Framework (10min) - Eric Gray + team
>                Discussion (25min) - all (discussion on the sk from the team, feedback from
>                                                         the wg, next steps, relation to other work, missing
>                                                         pieces, etc)
>

## Definitions

Nothing to report.

Draft version -02 to go out today Monday, to sync the datatracker and github versions.

## Framework

Nothing to report.

GitHub version differs from Datatracker only by some duplicated names in contributor/ack sections, so no update will be posted before the interim.

## Other

Bo Wu talked about the data model, https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-wd-teas-transport-slice-yang

Bo asked what is the design team's view on what kind of relationship there should be between the slicing model and the VN/TE model?

In Bo's approach, the slicing-side data model consists of Transport Slices, TS, and TS-Member/TS-Endpoint/SLO objects. TS-Member points to in Link in terms of the data model in RFC 8345. TS-Endpoint points to TP in the RFC 8345 data model. In the ACTN VN YANG model, TS-Endpoint corresponds to VNAP and TS-Member to VN-Member.

But the RFC 8345 model also has support networks, internal components visible in the model. Are these needed in the slicing model?

Reza suggests that we do not need to care about hierarchy.

Bigger discussion

Jari: my head is still on where to start,

Kiran asked What do we want to do, NBI or something else? She has not been fully convinced why not start with 8345 yet. it will still be a new model but can reuse a lot of details and discard what's not necessary. Especially, we dont define a service model, it is customer TS-topology model. A lot of things still missing from the NBI 

Eric: if i was looking for a model I'd list the endpoints and define SLO model on a per-endpointpair basis. I would not define an SLO group. This would work better for asymmetric and other situations. Trying to define SLO groups for anything else than  a single direction for a pair of endpoints is very difficult. Plus we need to define endpoints in more concrete terms. Summary: need another look on the SLO group and network slice intercace

Luis: It is becoming clear that one model is more customer facing but there's another aspect of how the provider implements, not necessarily using the same concepts (e.g., one vs. multiple slices). Also probably agree that we need to be more consistent with RFC 8345. Maybe the customer model is a subset of the other model detailed model. Start with RFC 8345 model?

Rakesh agrees with Luis.

Dhruv suggests next time we could look at how augmentation would look? Would be easier to compare to current proposal.

could you also mention monitoring aspect as well. I missed that aspect (but I will read the draft).

Jari's summary

## Closing

The meeting ended 15.XX CET.





