# TEAS NETWORK SLICING DESIGN TEAM MEETING NOTES, MONDAY JANUARY 27TH

Note taker: Jari Arkko

## Participants

- Dhruv Dhody
- Eric Gray
- Jeff Tantsura
- Jari Arkko
- Jie Dong
- Luis M. Contreras
- Rakesh Gandhi
- Sergio Belotti
- Shunsuke Homma
- Tomonobu Niwa
- Xufeng Liu

## Agenda

- Administrative
- Definitions draft
- Framework draft
- Any other business
- Closing

## Administrative

No administrative issues.

## Definitions draft

The definitions draft is at: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/definitions/draft-rokui-teas-transport-slice-definition-00.txt

Jari had sent a review to the mailing list: https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/teas-ns-dt/7zjnAiYEh4ka5oSKtRbQp8VtOtY 

Reza and Kiran were not in the meeting. Shunshuke asked about the issue that Sergio had raised: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/issues/3 That is, why is the definition in the definitions draft sufficient, and is it better than existing definitions, e.g., the one in enhanced VPN or some existing RFCs (such as RFC 8453 or RFC 7926).

The discussion converged on referring to existing RFCs (and aligning both enhanced-vpn and design team documents). There was strong support for reusing existing definitions.

But then it was somewhat unclear what specific definition exists for instance in Section 4 (abstractions) of RFC 7926. Or in RFC 8453. And Jari commented that while he is happy with the definition in the Enhanced VPN draft in general, in his opinion in one way it has an issue, as it picks up dedicated resources and isolation, and does not consider the full set of characteristics like the design team definitions draft version does. This might be fixable of course.

This discussion did not finish during the call. We decided to:

* Have the different proponents (at least Sergio, Jeff, Jari, Shunsuke,  and definitions draft authors) each look at RFC 7926, 8453, Enhanced VPN draft and other sources and suggest *specific* replacement definition that uses a reference to earlier work. 
* The resulting definition needs to be concrete and technical, and not a mere discussion of issues. Otherwise work on slicing will be unclear if the basis isn't accurately defined. Preferrably, the reference needs to be an actual definition.  A definition needs specify the concept using technical terms and not merely use industry terms. It would also be preferrable that the definition does not need to refer to 3GPP but rather is expressed in IP networking terms.

Definition draft authors need more feedback especially on the section 5. Jari responded that the SLO characteristics need to be defined more exactly, and should also point to some existing definitions. It would be bad if we had to define, e.g., latency or bandwidth again in our work.

There was a question about using the term transport slice or transport network slice. Have we decided which one to use? Jari says actual words have less significance than the definition. Was there an argument that some other work uses one or the other? Eric says we have been using the transport slice term so far, perhaps we should stick with it. On the call we decided to continue with the "transport slice" wording.

## Framework draft

The draft has moved and lives now in https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/framework/draft-framework.md

This draft can be compiled to a draft txt format easily, once the "make" process can  be made to work. Makefile process is not working yet, however, due to some tool version issues.

Eric asks if the document should refer to definitions document or the 3GPP documents or something else. Jari responded that it would be best to refer to the definitions document rather than spread the references to other documents (or even SDOs) to every document.

Eric asked if Jari had completed the changes relating to feedback sent to the list before the previous design team meeting. He had not, and Eric volunteered to make those changes.

## Any other business

The next meeting is 1.5 weeks away. Due to the impending deadlines, during this period everyone needs to:
    
    - suggest specific existing definitions to use
    - suggest text for sections of both the definitions and framework drafts
    - review both the definitions and framework drafts
    - discuss on the mailing list
    
## Closing

Meeting was closed 3.56PM CET.
