# TEAS NS DT MEETING MAY 18TH, 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko

## PARTICIPANTS

* Jari Arkko
* Reza Rokui
* Eric Gray
* Bo Wu
* John Drake
* Dhruv Dhody
* Kiran Makhijani
* Shunsuke Homma
* Tomonobu Niwa
* Xufeng Liu
* Jie Dong
* Sergio Belotti
* Srihari Sangli
* ...

## AGENDA

* Continued discussion about issues raised since the WG interim call

## DISCUSSION

### Definitions draft

Reza, Kiran, and Shunshuke were on the call to discuss the draft and the authors' view on it.

Reza noted that before the WG interim the feeling was that design team was largely happy with the general direction of the document. A few discussions were started:
    
    * Isolation (which has dominated the discussion)
    * The term "transport slice" (which we may have closed)

Reza believes that we should be able to proceed by addressing all the good feedback, but not by rewriting everything. Eric responded that he believes much of the discussion was about the "philosophical" content in the draft that has little to do with the actual substantive definition.

Reza went through the document:
    
    * Introduction. Largely ok, modulo some text tuning?
    
    * Core definition: the question is whether the multipoint, etc. nature is included in the definition. Greg had suggested taking it out, authors are fine with that but add material later in the document. Jari thinks it is necessary to explain somewhere -- not necessarily in the core definition -- what is covered here. Otherwise the definition is under-defined.
    
    * SLO: The author team wants to split the definition to two lists, measurable and non-measurable. Eric's comment was that if SLO characteristic is not clearly objective, observable characteristic, it shouldn't be here. Availability is measurable. Bo Wu brought up the point that the framework draft mentions a monitoring capability, which applies for an SLO that is measurable.
    
    * Bandwidth guarantees: Should this be average, committed, minimum, range? Eric believes that in order to be exhaustive one has to have more than what is said in the current document. Reza agrees that that these are valid points. Do we have to create multiple characteristics? Jie Dong asked whether one should cover reserved bandwidth? Eric says that if one doesn't want to be exhaustive, guaranteed minimum bandwidth would be fine. Jari says we have two approaches: can be fully exhaustive which leads to a complex definition, or provide a concrete characteristic that may not cover everything. But not covering everything is fine, because our list of characteristics was never intended to be inclusive of everything. 
    * Kiran expressed concerns about possibly "re-inventing the wheel" and suggested we should find an IETF reference that defines bandwidth guarantees.  Erics notes that attemping to refer to existing RFCs may lead to having to point to multiple RFCs, as specific RFCs probably talk about bandwidth guarantees in a very specific setting. Jie Dong asked about guarantees. Do we need to mention whether the guarantees are 100% or not? Eric responded that this is covered in the confidence level text that comes later in the document.
    
    * Latency: Eric wants to remove the text about application latency. Eric believes we are doing network service, and should not include other aspects. Suggest removing. Reza is ok with that. Jari also agrees.
    
    * Availability, reliability, packet loss, and confidence level: These may have some duplication. Please produce a small set of characteristic that covers the entire space.  E.g., just packet loss and confidence level? This should be left for further discussion of the author team.
    
    * Security: Xufeng Liu points out that security isn't usually measurable/observeable, but one can imagine checking that encryption is on, for instance. One can also imagine putting in monitoring functionality for this. Eric belives that controllers should actually do monitoring for these kinds of cases. Eric brings up another point that the security is far too on/off style in the document. There are different security techniques, encryption is just one technique. And ACLs and authentication are very specific techniques.
    
    * Isolation: We did not have time to discuss this. (Jari would have observed that the current text does not yet solve the issues raised.)
    
### Other issues

No time for other discussion.

## CLOSING

The meeting was closed 16:08 CET.
