# TEAS NS DT CALL JAN 13TH, 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko

## PARTICIPANTS

* Jari Arkko
* Jie Dong
* Eric Gray
* Rakesh Gandhi
* Shunshuke Homma
* Xufeng Liu
* Ran Chen
* Sergio Belotti
* Xuesong Geng
* Bo Wu
* + some call-in users whose names we may not have gotten

## AGENDA

* Introduction to enhanced-vpn (Jie Dong)
* Framework structures from John (Eric Gray)
* Definitions draft
* Framework
* Any other business
* Closing

## INTRODUCTION TO ENHANCED-VPN DRAFT

Jie Dong presented an overview of what enhanced-vpn is, including what work is in what Internet Drafts in various different working groups.

Enhanved-vpn defines a framework of how to think about improved, "enhanced" VPN services that resemble those of network slices, including things like guarantees for bandwidth and isolation. Enhanced-vpn does not currently focus on northbound interface, nor does it define any new data models. But it does have an analysis of what existing data models can and can not do, and quite a lot of focus on how underlying technologies can support the different requirements for enhanced VPNs or slices.

Jie suggested that based on recent mail list discussion, the design team may focus on the high-level framework related to management plane and northbound interface, and both drafts can reference each other.

Further discussion will be needed.

## FRAMEWORK STRUCTURES FROM JOHN DRAKE

Eric Gray presented some input from John with regards to how to align and/or use material from the enhanced-vpn drafts with regards to framework descriptions.

Xufeng Liu believes that we should not lift too many text pieces or add too much material to the design team draft, but rather decide on a case-by-case basis on what topics are relevant and necessary to talk about in the design team draft. Xufeng also suggested the design team follow the top-down approach to provide a high level framework and reference VPN+ framework for the details.

Jari concluded that we are in exploration phase where we try to understand what tech and documentation is already out there, and what the design team should produce in its framework, and what things we can refer to. Also, if existing IETF technologies are a close match to what the design sees as needed for slices, this is a good thing.

## DEFINITIONS DRAFT

Reza had posted a new version of the definitions draft to the design team mailing list. (There was some discussion of whether draft was sent to mailing list or not, and when, and in how many versions.) 

Reviews are pending. 

Not all comments reflected yet. 

Shunshuke Homma: Lets put the definitions draft on GitHub. Agreement to do this. 

* AP: Shunshuke will work with Reza to do this. 

* AP:  Everyone to review

## FRAMEWORK

Besides the framework discussions from the first two agenda items above, Jari had also written a simple framework example in https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/notes/notes-2020-01-13-example-minimal-framework.md

There was a request to move the slice realisation part from the definitions draft to the framework draft.

* AP: Jari to lift the realisation part and move it to the framework document

John's and Eric's comments were also discussed. Eric wanted to know if Jari or someone else should take into account the previously made comments regarding the structure. Jari said that he had not yet had time to incorporate the comments in this framework example.  

* AP: Eric volunteered to work with John to pursue the framework example further.

There was a discussion of to what extent material from enhaned VPN draft is referred to or copied. Eric believes that the answer needs to be that some high level parts are stated in the design team framework dfraft and likely close to what is said in the enhanced-vpn draft, but many other things should be references.

* AP: Everyone to review and contribute

## ANY OTHER BUSINESS

No time for any other items.

## CLOSING

Meeting ended 16.05PM CET.
