Notes from the TEAS NS DT call #2, October 7th, 2019

Participants
========

* Jari Arkko
* Xufeng Liu
* Reza Rokui
* Sergio Belotti
* Luis M. Contreras
* Kiran
* Call in user 2: Ron Bonica
* Call in user 3: Jie Dong
* Lou Berger
* Jeff Tantsura
* Rakes Gandhi
* Eric Gray
* Tomonobu Niwa
*  Shunsuke Homma

Agenda
=====

* Call times
* Requirements to transport/TE networks from 5G and other types of networks (Jeff, John, Xuesong, Jari)
* Slice templates (Luis)
* Dividing work among DT members, planning
* AOB

Topics
=====

Pre-chat with Reza
Notes from the first meeting seem to align with Reza's 
He has also had a draft, presented last time in TEAS (
https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-rokui-5g-transport-slice-00)
Reza believes that today, none of the data models addresses the needs, may need augmentation
https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/105/materials/slides-105-teas-sessa-03-5g-transport-slice-connectivity-interface


Call times
=======

Every two weeks, at this time (Mon, 3pm CET), every other two weeks at a different time (Thu, 5pm CET)

Requirements to transport/TE networks from 5G and other types of networks (Jeff, John, Xuesong, Jari, Reza)
==========================================================================

>Jari's overview
Important for us to provide a general service, not just for 3GPP
For 3GPP, see 38.401 s6.1.1 and 38.300 s12 and s16.3
For the radio network
The actual radio communication is 3GPP specific, including QoS, slicing, etc
For front-haul, the communications are largely over dedicated links
For back-haul, there needs to be a mapping from RAN slices & bearers & QoS into how it is transported, and carried onto core
HERE WE CAN APPLY TEAS TECH
For the core network
You may get to different core network/server/AMF depending on what slice you are on
All server nodes, and all connections between core network components may be sliced/separated/dedicated
HERE WE CAN APPLY TEAS TECH
For the northbound interface, we seem to need something like:
Ability to specify static transport connections
Ability to specify dynamic connections
Ability to get performance and status feedback from connections
For each connection, the characteristics, which could be some combination of
Bandwidth, delay, jitter, etc
Independence and resource requirements (e.g., not share anything with another connection)
L3 requirements (e.g., any specific requirements with regards to address space of the connection itself (like tunnel endpoints) or traffic inside it
Discussion
Should we handle CPRI and front-haul or not?
We should create generic tech, though probably today not much usage in front-haul
Some docs talk about compute resources. Is that in scope?
Xufeng: probably out of scope, but can include references to other standards
Jari thinks we should do only transport and let others point to the transport specs, data models, etc. from the IETF
Jeff thinks IETF thinks about compute as endpoint, not about what's in the endpoint. 3GPP thinks about compute as an application function.
There's advanced work on ACTN, how do people feel about using it
Xufeng: believes ACTN is very relevant and we should use it. But a slice may be either TE-based or not TE-based. Cannot always refer to TE-based ACTN. 
Question to Jeff: where does pre-emption come in? or does it?
Answer -- this was about pre-emption of connections, not of packets. But initially networks are more statically configured than dynamic. But later pre-emption comes to be necessary, with dynamic behaviour.
Reza explained the role of e2e slices and individual component transport slices
Different transport slices are likely implemented in different ways (e.g., dedicated line or TE/VPN connection)
Our models need to recognise the need to use different tech underneath
Reza had to leave, but wants to work on modelling

Slice templates (Luis)
===============

Luis explained the GSMA Generic Network Slice Template usage. A customer prepares a template, and it gets handled by the operator, ultimately leading to the creation of slices and all associated technical components, including transport parts.
Luis has gone through the attributes in the slice template, and which ones affect transport network, and what IETF WG technology is affected, if any. Luis has a spreadsheet of the attributes and his analysis.
This analysis seems very useful, we can use it to understand what kinds of parameters we will eventually get on the northbound interface.

Moving forward & dividing work among DT members
====================================

For next time, talked about progressing the following:
scope (Jari, maybe also others)
look at existing I-D documents, start to analyze which of them are suitable input for our work (Reza, maybe also others)
modelling (Xufeng, maybe also others who have done work on this space).
analysis from templates (Luis)
definitions (Jie Dong)
The next call is in 1.5 weeks, and will have a lot of material -- please do progress your item and post at least some results on the mailing list so that we can discuss even before the next call!

AOB
===

None


