# NOTES FROM TEAS-NS-DT Monday, November 11, 2019

##  PARTICIPANTS

    - Jari Arkko
    - Shunsuke Homma
    - Jeff Tantsura
    - Kiran Makhijani
    - Luis M. Contreras
    - Rakesh Gandhi
    - Tomonobu Niwa
    - Jie Dong
    - Xufeng Liu

## AGENDA

* agenda bash
* calls
* scope
* definitions


## Agenda bash

No bash.

## Calls

There will be two meetings in Singapore: Sun 4pm and Mon 7pm

## Scope

Jari went through the initial presentation for the WG, regarding scope of work

Some fine-tuning of the presentation happened online. The initial presentation (after edits during the call) has been shared on the mailing list.

There was more significant questions regarding the following topics:

* The use of connection vs. slice term (and if it has any performance or understandabiloity implications)
* Are network functions only endpoints in our model, or also parts of the transport slice/connection? that is a fundamental question.
    * For instance, is a firewall or load balancer part of a transport slice/connection?
    * One possibility is that transport slice/connection is merely a communications facility at L2/L3, not include upper layer parts, and any other functionality is outside the transport connections that we work on. But a NAT should still be included...
    *  Jari thinks that there's a fundamental difference between having no functions or having even one. Sometimes it is helpful to start a design from the simplest, bare model, one that has everything that is absolutely required. And then if other things are needed in some situations, define a higher-level construct that include the simple model as well as those additional things.
    * Jeff's conclusion: the inclusion of functions in the model deserves f2f discussion in Singapore

## Definitions

Jari has one issue still with definitions: the role of isolation is somehow too big in the definition. He'd rather see required characteristics, and then a list of examples of those characteristics, such as latency, bandwidth, level of isolation. Jeff and Kiran agreed. The text in the draft should read "... required characteristics, such as ..."

Kiran asked if the design team will work on those characteristics? Jari thinks we must have at least an initial set, because that's the input in the northbound interface. We must be able to define at least latency, bandwidth etc. so that equipment can work in the northbound interface in an interoperable way. Of course there may be extensions to those supported characteristics later. Jeff and Kiran continued the discussion regarding whether that's already supported in the data model and how to structure our work going forward.

On the call we also talked about hard vs. soft separation and how that should be represented in the data model. Jeff wanted to represent hard and soft as two branches in the data model tree, Jari would like to rather point to individual specific requirements. This is another topic that needs to continue in Singapore.

## Meeting end

Meeting ended 5PM CET.
