# JUNE 1ST NETWORK SLICING DESIGN TEAM MEETING

Notes by TBD and Jari Arkko for the initial template and participants.

Participants:
* Greg Mirsky
* Jari Arkko (part time)
* Eric Gray
* Jie Dong
* Luis M. Contreras
* Dhruv Dhody
* Reza Rokui
* Shunsuke Homma
* Rakesh Gandhi
* Tomonobu Niwa
* Xufeng Liu
* Bo Wu
* Kiran Mahkijani
* Xuesong
* コールインユーザー_3

## Agenda

* Agenda bash
* Definitions draft
* Any other business

## Agenda bash

Jari said he would need to leave the meeting right away and asked if someone else could "chair" the meeting, or at least take notes.

## Definitions draft

Authors propose to try closing most of the issues with Service Level Objectives.

Need more information on NF Resources, otherwise clean it up.

Discussion on availability. Greg proposes to use the same terminology used by other SDOs. 

Eric claimed that availability is measurable in terms of whether or not the service objectives are being met.

Jie Dong agreed with Greg that availability is more complicated in packet switched networking. And in this document it is not just about connectivity, it also reflects the SLOs. Some more details and perhaps examples could help. 

Bo Wu said that Availability is a useful objective, or parameter - and it would help if there were one or more examples.

Availability perceived by the DT as a relevant parameter to consider.

Reza added notes on the discussion to his version of the document.  Reza's notes are embedded in the Google Docs version at: 
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dQl12DbtDwd0aKhckexupfUjFrhCE2JFgZhjZ9UKczM/edit?usp=sharing

Shunsuke uploaded a copy of the modified Google Docs (describing notes Reza took) on NS-DT GitHub repository for people who can't see Google Docs.
https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/definitions/01062020_V05-draft-nsdt-teas-transport-slice-definition_with_comments.docx

There was also some discussion about whether traffic type (IPv4, IPv6, etc.) is one characteristic of the slice. Jie Dong said that that  should the slice request also specify whether the address space can be shared with other slices or it requires an independent address space, so that the addresses could be duplicated in different slices?

## Any other business

Ran out of time, ending meeting at just after the scheduled time.
