# NSDT CALL MAY 28TH, 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko + corrections from others.

Participants:
    * Jari Arkko
    * Dhruv Dhody
    * Kiran Makhijani
    * Jie Dong
    * Jeff Tantsura
    * John Drake
    * Reza Rokui
    * Rakesh Gandhi
    * Shunsuke Homma
    * Srihari Shangli
    * Greg Mirsky
    * Eric Gray
    * Xufeng Liu
    * Bo Wu
    * Luis M. Contreras
    * Sergio Belotti

## Agenda

* Definitions draft issues and revisions
* AoB
* Closing

## Definitions draft issues and revisions

Kiran explained that they had started from Eric's comments. Reza has a worked on a google doc version with updates. The document is at: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dQl12DbtDwd0aKhckexupfUjFrhCE2JFgZhjZ9UKczM/edit

Reza explained the changes section by section:
    
    * There was context / justification addded in introduction. Focus here is on implementation-unaware requests for VPN functionality.
    * The transport terminology was added to Section 4.
    * There was a division between directly and indirectly measureable SLO.
    * Security text was reduced.
    * NF resources was added as an optional resource specification.
    * Reliability and isolation was taken out of SLO.
    * The group of authors could not agree on confidence level.
    * Traffic types and geographic locations were added.
    * Isolation section was moved to an appendix.

We then entered discussion. There were several comments:
    
    * Jie Dong said that there's been good progress, but could you provide this in GitHub because of inability to use Google docs. Also, did you keep the directly and indirectly measurable categories? Answer from Kiran was: Yes. Also, what does "Maximum Occupancy Level" mean? Luis M. Contreras responded that the slice could specify the occupancy of a slice. Jeff Tantsura said that he wants to 
    * Jari Arkko commented:
    * Overall many of the changes look good, particularly like the reduced text in Section 4.1 list of SLOs. And the security SLO is better than previous versions because we don't have the confusing isolution discussion embedded in that.
    * The SLO list should be stated to be minimum set of SLOs, as people should be able to define additional SLOs. So the SLOs in this document do not cover all possible use cases, but are common ones that appear in many situations.
    * I'm not sure why availability is in the indirectly measurable category. Agree with Eric's comment on not breaking up individual metrics into these categories.
    * He does not understand why NF resources need to be represented for transport slices that should be terminating at NFs.
    * Not totally sold on the idea of occupancy rate. Are we back to the internal realization?
    * Jeff Tantsura agrees that confidence level is meaningless.
    * Eric Gray: I would recommend talking about the concepts measurable/not measurable separately, but not break the specific SLOs to these groups. Also, the security SLO is going down the drain of specifying internal implementation details. Wants encryption specified for data protection, both transport & storage.
    * Xufeng Liu: Comments on Section 1.1, and don't feel the text clarifies.
    * John Drake: Also in Section 1.1., there is confusion about provider vs. user-equipment. That choice is not technology dependent. This is a fundamental point and the document needs to get this right.
    * Srihari Sangli: We should not have a category of not measurable. People will invent ways to measure. Reza said that we only have directly and indirectly. Srihari: then its OK!
    * Jeff agreed with Eric's comment about encryption in communication vs. storage. Kiran said that we don't cover storage. Jeff argued that there was discussion to cover storage as well. Jeff also commented that he would like to see burstable bandwidth as opposed to minimum bandwidth only. Jeff also agreed with the earlier discussion of not categorizing SLOs as measurable/directly/indirectly/enforceable.
    * Greg said that RFC 6003 would be a useful reference. He also made the point that if the minimum set of is not sufficient, please make a case why something needs to be added. Greg did not have an opinion on this by himself, but wanted to say that we should not add without substantial reason.

Conclusion: Kiran will initiate a discussion on the list on the three issues that she felt were the key ones:
    
    * Section 1.1 justification
    * NF resources
    * The use of the term 'transport'

## AoB

There was no time for other discussion.

## Closing

The meeting ended 18.03 CET.
