# NOTES FROM TEAS-NS-DT Monday, November 4, 2019


##  PARTICIPANTS

* Jari Arkko
* Eric Gray
* Jeff Tantsura
* Luis M. Contreras
* Rakesh Gandhi
* Sergio Belotti
* Tomonobu Niwa
* Xufeng Liu


## AGENDA
     
* Administrative
  * Note taking
  * Agenda bashing
  * Actions from last week
  * Meetings
    * Monday 11th November -- over Webex
    * During IETF week -- in person
* Technical discussion
   * Definitions
* AoB


## DISCUSSION


### Calls

- People are filling in the Doodles, will make a decision.
- At the end of the call, it seemed like the first time on Monday 11th was winning, and 
- Decisions:
- call on Monday 11th Nov at 4pm Europe/Paris time
- in-person meeting (+ webex) Sunday 17th 16:00-17:30 in Singapore

### Draft status

- two documents submitted, one on data model by Zufeng and one on definitions by Reza


### Definitions

A new draft has been submitted on definitions by Reza. Please take a look, possibly a good starting point for the discussion.

Eric: I had submitted a large number of comments, not sure they all've been responded to? Not sure if comments were received or not. We should have more than just a new version, but also include a response to comments made either stating how they are addressed, or reasons why they are not.  Otherwise, we will likely see comments like "my earlier comments have not been addressed." Reza: will try to go through that

Jeff: definition draft is very high level, can we align with data model?  Eric: While the definitons should be aligned with the data models, it is unclear that data model should drive the rest of our work. Jeff data model doesn't't nessesarily drives the work however both drafts need to be aligned. Reza: some aspects of data models are somewhat use case-dependent (e.g., 5G vs. network sharing). Getting more use cases would help us create a better model.

Reza argues for a generic + application specific model. Eric agrees with Reza, at the abstract level definitions and models need to cover the general case, but there will be details that will differ. Reza: some examples, in 5G there are some specific network parameters that are only relevant for 5G, but not other use cases. Slice ID is one example.

Eric It is not clear that the Slice ID in 5G network slicing is a distinguishing factor. In other networks there's also Tenant ID. These are not entirely disconnected. Reza: there are different solutions to how one gives information to the next node about what slice this packet belongs to, e.g., VLAN ID, but one could use also something else. Jeff: what I'm trying to say is that one should abstract this in the northbound interface. The definition needs to be generic.  Jari: but I think we have different identifiers at different layers. The transport identifiers (e.g. VLAN IDs, MPLS labels) we need to describe in the models, and they are a part of transport functionality. But other identifiers may only be 

### Overall discussion

Reza: What are the areas of investigation in the DT?

Jari's answer was:
* definitions
* data model and the northbound api (which basically is just sending a data model)
* basic use cases
* maybe also templates, monitoring, automation, and some other things? But this is unclear

We had a discussion on whether data model and northbound api are the same thing; We found some agreement that they are the same. So this  reduces the work list to basically three items: definitions, use cases, and data model/northbound.

Luis is progressing a draft on slice templates and northbound inteface.  Reza: Need to work together between northbound api, templates, and data model

There was also a discussion about whether southbound interfaces are in scope.  Reza believes that the southbound interfaces should be just plain existing IETF interfaces and models. Jari and Jeff agree. Jeff points to ACTN  as a technology to already provide this. Jari thinks our first order of business is to create a northbound API and slicing concept based on existing IETF tech. Some discussion on whether existing technology needs some extensions. Jari thinks this is theoretically possible, but will have to do later.

(ACTN is RFC8453)

Conclusion: for now no need to extend southbound APIs

The draft that has the data model discussed is draft-liu-teas-transport-network-slice-yang

The focus of the draft is: Since ACTN topology data models are based on the network topology model defined in [RFC8345], the augmentations defined in this document are effective augmentations to the ACTN topology data models, resulting in making the ACTN framework [RFC8453] and data models [I-D.ietf-teas-actn-yang] capable of slicing networks with the required network characteristics.

### AoB

None

### Closing

Call ended at 15:50
