# NS DT CALL JULY 9TH, 2020 NOTES

Note taker: Jari Arkko + feel free to edit, everyone!

Participants:
* Jari Arkko
* Kiran Makhijani
* Greg Mirsky
* Eric Gray
* Jie Dong
* Bo Wu
* John Drake
* Luis M. Contreras
* Aihua Guo
* Dhruv Dhody
* Jeff Tantsura
* John Drake
* Reza Rokui
* Shunsuke Homma
* Sergio Belotti
* Xufeng Liu

## AGENDA

* Definitions
* Framework
* Other business

## DEFINITIONS

There seemed to be agreement last time on the big issues, Kiran and the team have updated the document editorially.

Asking for final review before submission.

Eric had done a partial review.

Jeff thinks the work was good, ready to submit. Reza agrees.

Jari has not reviewed, will do a review today. Everyone to review by midday Friday.

Eric points out that deadline is on Monday.

Kiran to send an email to the WG once the draft is submitted.

## FRAMEWORK

Kiran had done a review and provided comments in a Word document. Eric has annotated the 

Need to synchronize the diagram. But need to do it after submission, as the two documents need to be in sync.

Kiran points out that the definitions draft uses customer consistently, not consumer.  The two drafts don't agree. Eric's proposal is that we should use the term consumer. Jeff and Kiran eventually converging on agreement to use the consumer term. But lets finish this discussion after the draft is published.

First of Kiran's comments was on the abstract, and it was about the level to this document goes when saying something about existing vs. new interfaces. Are we saying that we use only existing things or also new things? Or entirely new things? The group seems to be on the middle point of this continuum but neither the current text or Kiran's proposal are exactly on that point. So modification of the text is needed. An agreement for a direction was found on the call.

An editorial comment that we don't need to say "IETF X" but rather just "X" when referring to IETF technologies.

Another comment was that the wording on data, control, and management planes is unclear. Eric didn't think it was unclear. On the call we finally understood the issue -- it feels odd to pick just isolation term from the various characteristics/SLOs -- and Eric agreed to reword the sentence to be more general.

## OTHER BUSINESS

## CLOSING
