notes/notes-2020-02-10.md, before:

# TEAS NS DT FEBRUARY 10TH, 2020 CALL NOTES

Note takers: Eric Gray, others as able

## PARTICIPANTS

* Eric Gray
* Bo Wu
* Dhruv Dhody
* Jie Dong
* Rakesh Ghandi
* Reza Rokui
* Sergio Belotti
* Shunsuke Homma
* Xuesong Geng
* Xufeng Liu

Note: Reza had to leave almost immediately.  We talked briefly about his proposed contribution and he said that he mostly wanted to preserve his thinking and work on the topic and is amenable to dicussion about specific content to be used.

## AGENDA

* Framework draft
* Definitions draft
* Johns list of technology agnostic "isolation" dimensions.

## FRAMEWORK DRAFT

We reviewed the "pull" available from Dhruv Dhody on this draft.  There seemed to be no objection to merging this into the draft ".md" file on GitHub.

Dhruv's "pull" may be found at: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pull/5/commits/36ba2d290d9952a7642dc2a6dd6f44c35025700b

We reviewed at a high level the proposed contribution for the controller section provided by Reza.  See my E-Mail from slightly before the meeting, which summarizes the changes proposed by both Dhruv and Reza, and compares the proposed changes.  Reza and I were able to briefly discuss his contribution (as mentioned in the note at the start of these meeting notes) and the possbility of having a meeting later this week to discuss what we could use from this contribution.

There seemed to be general agreement that we want to continue to have the framework draft as a light, high-level description of the problem space - which argues that a lot of the content in Reza's proposed contribution might work better as a separate draft.

Xufeng had sent out E-Mail late yesterday with proposed text to add to the framework draft, but nobody seemed to have received it.  He said he would create a "pull" for these changes at GitHub.  If it did not show up later, Xufeng and I would have to resolve that off-line.  After some time, the pull showed up.

Xufeng's "pull" is at: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pull/6/commits/95a570e25e7bb222d08777412b0695294224249a 

## DEFINITIONS DRAFT

We reviewed the latest "pull" for this draft and the changes were minor.

Sergio's "pull" is at: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pull/4/commits/e167717bb3fe19ddd4e5da889f804c79d953baa2.

Eric pointed out that there is likely an issue with this as Kiran Makhijani had presented her "latest" changes and they probably were not reflected in Sergio's "pull" (For example, Sergio's "pull" showed one of the changes was to change "draft-rekui-..." to "draft-rokui-..." whereas Kiran's changes included changing "draft-rekui-..." back to "draft-nsdt-...").  Kiran made quite a lot of changes and these need to be merged with the version containing Sergio's modifications.

## Isolation

We looked at John's E-Mail on Isolation, in which he listed three forms of isolation that are technology independent (or agnostic):
    
Protection isolation – a failure in the network will not impact a customer’s service for longer than X seconds, where X is a number in the range 50 msecs to some number of seconds, as specified in the SLO
Reachability isolation – a customer’s packets will not be misdelivered to another customer with a probability of X, where X is a percentage in the range 100 to some lower percentage, as specified in the SLO
Performance isolation – a customer’s performance related SLO parameters will not be degraded by more X, where X is a percentage in the range of 0 to some higher percentage, as specified in the SLO 

There was confusion about what was listed here in terms of "protection isolation."  One form of protection isolation discussed in earlier meetings was separation of alternative connectivity and/or resources to avoid shared risks.

There was little to know discussion of "reachability isolation."

We started a discussion about "performance isolation."  It is recognized that this is a potentially contentious topic, in part because - while some customers (and some applications) seem to want "complete isolation" (where it is presumed that - in the descripiton above "X" is exactly equal to zero), it is not at all clear that this can be provided via packet-switched networks, that it is necessarily desirable in networks or where the network operator wants to leverage resource virtualization.

We already point to the enhanced VPN draft and could reword the reference to indicate that it discusses requirements relating to this.

We will need to continue this part fo the discussion further.

## CLOSE

Meeting was closed at 16:01 CET.

Commit message:

Modified notes on discussion about definition
Modified text Sergio's pull request
Added Shunsuke's question

notes/notes-2020-02-10.md, after:

# TEAS NS DT FEBRUARY 10TH, 2020 CALL NOTES

Note takers: Eric Gray, others as able

## PARTICIPANTS

* Eric Gray
* Bo Wu
* Dhruv Dhody
* Jie Dong
* Rakesh Ghandi
* Reza Rokui
* Sergio Belotti
* Shunsuke Homma
* Xuesong Geng
* Xufeng Liu

Note: Reza had to leave almost immediately.  We talked briefly about his proposed contribution and he said that he mostly wanted to preserve his thinking and work on the topic and is amenable to dicussion about specific content to be used.

## AGENDA

* Framework draft
* Definitions draft
* Johns list of technology agnostic "isolation" dimensions.

## FRAMEWORK DRAFT

We reviewed the "pull" available from Dhruv Dhody on this draft.  There seemed to be no objection to merging this into the draft ".md" file on GitHub.

Dhruv's "pull" may be found at: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pull/5/commits/36ba2d290d9952a7642dc2a6dd6f44c35025700b

We reviewed at a high level the proposed contribution for the controller section provided by Reza.  See my E-Mail from slightly before the meeting, which summarizes the changes proposed by both Dhruv and Reza, and compares the proposed changes.  Reza and I were able to briefly discuss his contribution (as mentioned in the note at the start of these meeting notes) and the possbility of having a meeting later this week to discuss what we could use from this contribution.

There seemed to be general agreement that we want to continue to have the framework draft as a light, high-level description of the problem space - which argues that a lot of the content in Reza's proposed contribution might work better as a separate draft.

Xufeng had sent out E-Mail late yesterday with proposed text to add to the framework draft, but nobody seemed to have received it.  He said he would create a "pull" for these changes at GitHub.  If it did not show up later, Xufeng and I would have to resolve that off-line.  After some time, the pull showed up.

Xufeng's "pull" is at: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pull/6/commits/95a570e25e7bb222d08777412b0695294224249a 

## DEFINITIONS DRAFT

We reviewed the latest "pull" for this draft and the changes were minor.

Sergio's "pull" is at: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pull/4/commits/e167717bb3fe19ddd4e5da889f804c79d953baa2.

Eric pointed out that there is likely an issue with this as Kiran Makhijani had presented her and Shunsuke's "latest" changes and they probably were not reflected in Sergio's "pull" (For example, Sergio's "pull" showed one of the changes was to change the basic definition of transport slice with referring definitions of "virtual network" described in other RFCs and WG documents).  Shunsuke and Kiran made quite a lot of changes and these need to be merged with the version containing Sergio's modifications.

Shunsuke asked whether Sergio's proposal to change the definition had been agreed in NS-DT. Discussion should be done on mailing list.

## Isolation

We looked at John's E-Mail on Isolation, in which he listed three forms of isolation that are technology independent (or agnostic):
    
Protection isolation – a failure in the network will not impact a customer’s service for longer than X seconds, where X is a number in the range 50 msecs to some number of seconds, as specified in the SLO
Reachability isolation – a customer’s packets will not be misdelivered to another customer with a probability of X, where X is a percentage in the range 100 to some lower percentage, as specified in the SLO
Performance isolation – a customer’s performance related SLO parameters will not be degraded by more X, where X is a percentage in the range of 0 to some higher percentage, as specified in the SLO 

There was confusion about what was listed here in terms of "protection isolation."  One form of protection isolation discussed in earlier meetings was separation of alternative connectivity and/or resources to avoid shared risks.

There was little to know discussion of "reachability isolation."

We started a discussion about "performance isolation."  It is recognized that this is a potentially contentious topic, in part because - while some customers (and some applications) seem to want "complete isolation" (where it is presumed that - in the descripiton above "X" is exactly equal to zero), it is not at all clear that this can be provided via packet-switched networks, that it is necessarily desirable in networks or where the network operator wants to leverage resource virtualization.

We already point to the enhanced VPN draft and could reword the reference to indicate that it discusses requirements relating to this.

We will need to continue this part fo the discussion further.

## CLOSE

Meeting was closed at 16:01 CET.
