# TEAS NS DT CALL MARCH 16, 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko + others completing

## PARTICIPANTS

* Jie Dong
* Bo Wu
* Jari Arkko
* Luis M. Contreras
* Eric Gray
* Jeff Tantsura
* Shunshuke Homma
* Xufeng Liu
* Greg Mirsky
* Kiran Makhani
* Rakesh Gandhi
* Sergio Belotti

## AGENDA

* Design team status, meetings at the WG, etc.
* Plan for discussing with the WG -- what we want to inform, what we want to find out, etc.
* Framework draft
* Definitions draft
* AoB
* Closing

## ADMINISTRATIVE

Drafts published, hurray!

No meeting next week, even virtual, in my understanding. Suggested meeting times for TEAS are April 15 or 23, see https://trac.ietf.org/trac/wgchairs/raw-attachment/wiki/WikiStart/April2020-RecommendedSchedule.pdf The TEAS WG chairs indicated that they are thinking that they can do an interim per DT and perhaps include related topics.  They're also thinking that regular draft status reports would be done solely by email as would introduction to new drafts.

Mild preference in the design team for April 23.

## PLAN FOR INFORMING THE WG

Send an introductory message about DT drafts to the list later this week, asking for feedback. Jari will do this (review mail on dt list first).

Possible draft revision.

Discuss with the WG in April The goal of a virtual WG meeting would be to
* have an  opportunity to present
* initiate call for adoption (formally on the list)
* explain status, where we're done, where work is still needed, etc.
* ask questions from the working group

We will need to work out the details in April.

## FRAMEWORK DRAFT

Additional requests for recognising authorship have come in. These will be honored. The new document will have two editors, a set of contributors (who all sent significant amounts of text), and an acknowledgement section that will acknowledge the rest of the design team. Jari will compile a list of people who participate in the design team work.

There was an additional issue raised by Jie Dong, which Eric will work to resolve.

## DEFINITIONS DRAFT

Definitions draft is as submitted.

Jeff Tantsura's comments were addressed in the submitted version. One issue remains that Kiran and Jeff need to discuss offline. This issue was related to Jari's comments on removing some too implementation-specific parts of the definitions draft.

## AOB

When will slides be prepared? Later, in April.

Will the design team be meeting again? Jari will start weekly meetings after "the week that was formerly called the IETF week".

Does the framework handle everything on mapping? The answer is no, it will not have data models, it does not specify how to map to specific underlyng technologies, etc.  Other documents will be needed. There's a bigger question of what the structure of other DT documents will be, assuming defs and framework are done? We don't need to have them now, but we should probably have an idea of what comes after.

There was a discussion of a southbound interface and whether it always exists. The conclusion seemed to be that interface does not exist in all cases, although it commonly exists.

## CLOSING

Meeting was closed 5.50PM CET.
