# TEAS NETWORK SLICING DESIGN TEAM NOTES, FEBRUARY 20TH 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko (add your name here if you mofied or added something)

## Participants

* Eric Gray
* Jari Arkko
* Bo Wu
* Dhruv Dhody
* Greg Mirsky
* Jeff Tantsura
* Jie Dong
* John Drake
* Rakesh Gandhi
* Ran Chen
* Reza Rokui
* Sergio Belotti
* Xufeng Liu
* Luis M. Contreras

## Agenda

* Administrativia
* Framework
* Role of design team work vs. existing documents
* Definitions
* AoB

## Administrativia

No administrativa.

## Framework

Eric went through the state of the framework document. There are five pull requests in GitHub. They can be found here: https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/pulls

Discussion:

* Xufeng provided a section on abstraction. Jari asked where the material is from. The answer was from existing RFCs. Jari asked if we should consider doing a high-level explanation and then merely pointing to the relevant RFCs. Xufeng responded that this is what he believed he did. 
* Reza had provided a 10-page update, but per discussion on mailing list this had been broken down into pieces. This was good.
* Reza's NBI pull request is still quite lengthy, there was some discussion on whether it can be compressed.
* Reza's framework section pull request: Eric was concerned with this possible having some conflicts with other sections.
* Reza's mapping section pull request: here the question was whether we need this level of detail. Reza believes we need some substance and that the level of detail is right.
* Ran Chen had provided a suggestion on mailing list that Eric will look at.
* Eric will provide some updates of the pull requests by Monday and rest by the end of the next week.

## Role of design team work vs. existing documents

Jari explained his view of the role of design team documents vs. other documents (such as the one on enhanced VPN, or MPLS, ACTN, etc).

His slides are available at https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/notes/design-team-role-vs-others.pdf and https://github.com/teas-wg/teas-ns-dt/blob/master/notes/design-team-role-vs-others.pptx

During the discussion, the design team corrected Jari's observations as follows:
    
* It is necessary to create new technology for the north-bound interface. The slides were changed accordingly.
* There was a discussion with regards to the proper abstraction level to use for the "mapping" part of our documentation

Jie noted that the observation about the relationship with existing documents is good, one thing to mention is that in the enhanced VPN draft, isolation is one of the important characteristics, there are also other requirements listed. While there are some similarities, the two drafts have different focuses and could be complementary to each other. Jari agrees with this.

## Definitions

There was no update since two weeks ago. There are still changes to be made in the todo-list:
    
* Discussion on isolation. There is an ongoing thread; Kiran to send a proposal out tomorrow.
* There's pull request from Sergio Belotti, pending integration. No discussion on this yet though.
* Editorial changes.

## Any other business

Reza asked Zufeng's help in setting up  pull requests as proper document modifications. They agreed to go through this off-line.

## Closing

The meeting was closed at 6:09PM CET. The next meeting will be on Monday 24th February.
