# TEAS NS DT CALL APRIL 6, 2020

Note taker: Jari Arkko. Some updates from others, e.g., Eric Gray.

## PARTICIPANTS

* Jari Arkko
* Eric Gray
* Sergio Belotti
* Bo Wu
* Dhruv Dhody 
* Jie Dong 
* Xufeng Liu
* Luis M. Contreras 
* Rakesh Gandhi
* Reza Rokui
* Shunsuke Homma

## AGENDA

* Model Discussion
* Updates from everyone
* Any other business
* Closing

## Modelling

Bo Wu presented the transport slice model (see https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-wd-teas-transport-slice-yang-00). There was a discussion of a number of issues around the approach, such as:

* To what extent should the transport slice be technology agnostic or not. Bo's model includes some VLAN tags, Xufeng Liu asked why is that a special case? In his opinion VPNs are technology specific, they should not be needed to be included. Dhruv Dhody argued that the VLAN identifiers for instance can be about the endpoints, how does one receive traffic from the slice to the endpoint? Reza argued that the model will be very different based on which starting point one takes, and that we have to collectively first agree on the approach.

* There's a need to agree on a criteria on what traffic belongs to a transport slice, e.g., based on the used interface and/or packet fields.

* Reza Rokui and Eric Gray argued that transport slices do not have to have the the same SLO across different every link in the transport slice topology. This is essential. It seemed that there's some consensus in the design team that this is actually the case.

* Control and data planes are not separated in 3GPP specifications.

* Do the use cases, such as wholesale VPN etc need to be included?

* Bo will make the draft directly available for DT comments

## Updates from everyone

Run out of time.

## Any other business

None.

## Closing

The meeting ended at 15.59 CET.
