# TEAS NS DT DESIGN TEAM CALL, MAY 14TH, 2020

Notes by Jari Arkko and Jie Dong.

## PARTICIPANTS

* Jari Arkko
* Dhruv Dhody
* Eric Gray
* Xufeng Liu
* Jeff Tantsura
* Bo Wu
* Kiran Makhijani
* Rakesh Gandhi
* Jie Dong
* Shunsuke Homma
* Luis M. Contreras
* Reza Rokui
* John Drake
* Sergio Belotti
* ...

## AGENDA

* Continuing discussion to resolve issues
* Any other business
* Closing

## DISCUSSION

### ACTN Picture and Framework document

The reference to mailing list discussion is https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/teas-ns-dt/xCd_iH7H_xuHPA3rv7Z-L3rb5qk/

The discussion will continue on email.

### Isolation discussion from last time

Jari stated that the 4.1 changes to characteristics and changing them to use the "confidence level" language seemed to have broad support in the group. Kiran has alread implemented these in the newest version of the draft.

Jari also stated that the 4.1.1 changes were much more controversial. There was a discussion of whether the change of moving the text to appendix is sufficient or not. Jari said that the content matters more than the location. We need the group to have a buy-in for the document.

Reza asked if we can use the reliability term. Jeff believes that we mix things, from observable to non-observable things. Reliability isn't as easily measurable quantity.

Reza asks if could just delete the non-measurable parts.

Kiran has made a proposal to distinguish measureable and observable characteristics under Section 4.1.

Eric thinks there is no fundamental difference between measurable and observable.

Jie thinks that whether something is measurable depends on the tools we have, and not all the requirements are measurable (e.g. availability, security). He also mentions that the meanning of isolation is multi-dimension, for example: address space isolation (as one requirement in existing VPNs), security isolation, performance isolation, etc. Perhaps it could be described in each dimension separately, so that we could make it clearer step by step.

### Eric's annoted version of the definitions document

The reference to mailing list discussion and the annoted document are TBD and TBD

Eric's issues and suggested changes include

- Revision of the introduction for correctness

Characteristics issues:
- Wrong definitions for some characteristics, e.g., latency should be maximum latency
- Eric thinks resource redundancy and other items are off the mark, because customer who wants redundancy they will ask for two separate things.
- Same for security.
- Resolution of guarantee was objectionable, but Kiran's new version seemed workable.
- Take the whole section about isolation out, as a philosophical discussion.

Endpoints:
- Current text conflates link termination points and transports.
- Do we need the connectivity patterns section?
- Horizontal and vertical slicing discussion is on how rather than what.

Other:
- Other rewording

Jeff and Kiran disagreed with some of Eric's points (e.g., about security).

Eric suggests that authors take a look at his comments.

Discussion will need to continue on the mailing list.

Transport term ...

### Kiran's 2-3 placeholders for modification

The reference to mailing list discussion thread is https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/teas-ns-dt/OtRaQR9hlWdVOTtKj24ajWrzo3I/

...

## ANY OTHER BUSINESS

## CLOSING

The meeting was closed XX.XX CET.
