
# NOTES FROM THE TEAS NS DT CALL, JUNE 11TH, 2020
 
Participants:
* Jari Arkko
* Xufeng Liu
* Luis M. Contreras
* Dhruv Dhody
* Bo Wu
* Jeff Tantsura
* Jie Dong
* Kiran Makhijani
* Reza Rokui
* Shunsuke Homma
* John Drake
* Aihua
* Eric Gray
* Sergio Belotti
 
Agenda:
* Definitions draft progress
* Any other business
* Closing
 
## Definitions draft progress
 
Authors have updated the draft. Unfortunately the google doc and the github xml do not yet agree fully. The XML is the latest version, however. The google doc only provides data on who made comments, where changes were done, etc.
 
Authors are very eager to move the document forward after this meeting.
 
Kiran Makhijani noted that the authors are not very willing to give up isolation, but have moved it to an appendix.
 
Kiran explained that some of the changes in the most recent version were:
* Removal of the application resources characteristic    
* Changes in endpoint discussion
* Removed hard/soft isolation discussion
* Removed level of confidence
* Plan to bring discussion of reliability, perhaps in the context of fate-share resources and isolation.
 
Jie Dong commented that last time the distinction between slice and VPN was asked about, and Kiran's reply today is slice is more about separation while VPN is more about privacy. Jie thinks slices are about both. 

Jie also commented that some of the characterstics (such as address type ,address space, etc.) may not be classified as SLO parameters, thus maybe a new subsection could be created for such characteristics, in parallel with SLO subsection.

Jari made the comment that while we do want to move forward, the bar is not that we're feeling we're done or needing to move to next topics. The bar is that we have something that both the design team is happy with and that the working group at large is likely happy with. Otherwise we do not have a document that we can publish. So we *do* need to get issues resolved. And _then_ we can proceed.
 
Jari has reviewed the most recent XML version from GitHub. Some comments:
* "SLO" used before acronym expansion.
* "Resources related to network functions that are necessary for applications" seems to be still in the document even if the corresponding characteristic has been removed.
* This being the minimal set of SLOs is now mentioned; thank you.
* Guaranted bandwidth vs. guaranteed minimum bandwidth inconsistency in the text.
* The wording on geographical restrictions is very vague. Consider either making a very specific characteristic requirement, or dropping it as part of the "minimum SLO set".
* Good that the hard/soft isolation wording is gone, and that the new isolation appendix is brief. But the isolation text may still be controversial, even if in appendix. I do not agree with some of the statements in the appendix, for instance. It seems to go into the implementation/realization realm and claims that only isolation can provide some of the guarantees. That doesn't seem to be the case, in my opinion. Jari is also a bit concerned about bringing the fate-share/reliability/isolation discussion again to the main body of the document, per the overview of the document status by Kiran. Jari agreed to send text to Kiran.
 
Jie Dong commented that maybe we can clarify different types of isolation in the text. Kiran responded that she will try to address this (but not in all details) after Jari sends his text proposal.
 
Eric Gray commented that he hasn't seen email discussion of the changes since the last version. But, more importantly, we cannot get WG consensus if we can't get even DT consensus. We need to agree what the minimum set is. And only *then* we can go to the working group. Eric thinks that we can add to the list at later time, but we do not need to put in everything anyone wants.
 
Eric also commented on the earlier discussion of VPNs vs. slices. Clearly, VPNs are a very specific implementation technology. One could do network slice service with VPNs or with other techniques. Our entire reason for slicing work is to do that independent of technology solutions. He's sorry that we have not even talked about this. Jeff thanked him for this opinion, and agreed with the point of view.
 
Eric continued, why do we have an implementation example of a very specific approach in the definitions draft. He thought isolation text might be more suitable for the framework draft. Kiran said that that would also be acceptable to her. 
 
Luis said that he thinks we should retain some isolation text in the definitions draft. Luis believes that isolation is one of the things that slicing brings to the networking industry. Jie Dong agreed. Eric responded by saying that he would agree to saying that networking slicing is required in some applications, but would not say much more than that. Eric believes current text is more or less right direction, but if we expect much more text then that may be problematic.
 
Jari said that what he hears is some acceptance of discussing isolation in the framework document, but also some participants believing that isolation is important to be mentioned in the definitions draft. Some contention on whether there's a need to develop the concept into full detail and how fundamental it should be described as.
 
We agreed to work on the text(s) associated with isolation.
 
## Any other business
 
Kiran requested that we complete the definitions work, and we should move in 1-2 weeks to other topics:
* Framework document
* New document on NBI
 
## Closing
 
The meeting ended 18.02 CET.
 
 
